$100 million from email marketing.
That's what I've done in the past 18
months with these exact strategies that
I'm exposing to you in this video. After
working with over 200 7 to9 figure
e-commerce brands, I have lived, seen,
and breathed everything that it takes to
run email marketing at the highest level
possible and scaled brands profitably
from seven figures to 8 figures to 9
figures. Now, I'm not here to sugarcoat
anything. The truth is, in 2026 and
beyond, you cannot profitably scale a
brand if you don't have cheaper forms of
marketing than meta ads, which are
getting more expensive by the day. The
ecom landscape will continue to get more
competitive in meta will keep getting
more expensive. While most brands are
just fighting for these expensive ad
spots, the fastest growing brands are
utilizing back-end systems of email and
SMS marketing. To take this expensive
traffic and nurture, convert, and get
repeat purchases out of these leads.
Because while Meta has an average of a
2x return on your ad spend, email has an
average ROI of 41x. Mastering email
marketing is no longer just a nice to
have. In today's world, it's a
necessity. In this mega video, I'm
holding absolutely nothing back. I'm
giving you all the information that you
need to run eight to nine figure
e-commerce brand accounts just like how
I have with these exact systems. I
actively run an email and SMS agency and
we work with nearly 100 brands right
now. And every month we're doing over
$10 million for our brands. So, we kind
of know what works and what doesn't. So,
in this video, I'll be going over how to
set up your email account, how to grow
your list effectively with signup forms,
how to use a non-discounttoriented email
approach to get you consistent revenue,
how to master the most important part of
your email account, your core email
flows, how to write and design high
converting emails, and even I'll be
going through a live example and behind
the scenes look of a brand that I'm
generating $500,000 a month from email
and SMS marketing. Sit back, relax, make
sure you watch this whole thing because
there is a stupid amount of value and
let's just get right into it. For
setting up your email marketing, I don't
recommend you use any other platform
besides Claio. I'm not paid to say this
or anything. Clavio is just the best
when it's specifically for e-commerce.
Don't overthink this. You could look at
all these other options, but at some
point if you reach a certain level of
scale with your business, you're going
to be switching to Claio. So, just start
with Claio. Now, setting up Clavio is
super easy. Literally just go to
cllayo.com and all you have to do is
enter your website, sign up for an
account. If you're using Shopify, just
add the Claio app. Just like that. Boom.
You got Clavio set up. So this is what
Claia looks like on the inside. I just
have a dummy account here. So you can
see that there's no revenue coming in.
But everything that you need to get your
account set up if you just go to home
and then account alerts right here in
the onboarding checklist which it'll
show for a new account. All you have to
do is go through those steps. It's going
to have you set up a branded email. It's
going to have you set up all the
requirements like demark which is just
like advanced stuff but they walk you
through it step by step. So I don't want
to waste too much time going through
this because their documents and
everything inside your Clavia once you
go to this home screen it's going to be
there for you to complete. So once you
have all those basics set up we can
actually creating some of our email
infrastructure. Now there are a couple
main aspects of email marketing that we
need to cover. One of them is going to
be your signup forms. So exactly how you
get people onto your email list. We need
to talk about our flows which are going
to be the automated emails which are
going to trigger after a customer does a
specific action on your website such as
abandons a cart. And then we also have
campaigns, which are the onetime emails
that you're blasting out to the list,
like a Memorial Day sale. So that's
everything that we're going to go over
today. So if we start off here, we can
see campaigns, which is this is what
houses the one-time emails that you're
sending out to the list. And then you
have flows right over here. So the
automated emails, you have reviews if
you do reviews with Clavio. You have the
signup forms right here. So think like
pop-up forms to getting email addresses.
There's just like growth strategies. So
like information, but I don't really
touch that. Then you have audience. So
you have lists and segments. And then
you have profiles. So profiles right
here is what's going to be all of your
email addresses that you've collected.
Then list and segments are just
different ways for you to segment
people. Then we have different forms of
content such as our templates, images,
and brand. And of course, we have
analytics. Once you have numbers coming
in, you can look at the different
dashboards and metrics that Clavio has
to offer. But we're just going to start
off with the bare minimum. And we are
going to talk about signup forms. This
is the most important thing that you
need to set up when you're starting off
with email marketing is getting people
to actually join your email list. So, if
we click on to sign up forms right here,
you can see that I have different
templates right here inside this dummy
account. So, to create a new form, you
need to make sure you're able to add
forms to your website, just like this.
If you click on right here, it'll walk
you through steps on making sure that
you have on-site tracking on your
account, which allows you to be able to
actually have your sign up. If you have
Shopify, this should already be
connected for you, but you have to make
sure you have that. And then we can
actually create our forms right here. So
Clavio gives us a ton of different
templates that we can go off of for our
different forms. They actually just
added spin to wins. So if you want to do
spin to wins, that's something that you
can do. You can also have multiple steps
to gather somebody's phone number or
whatever you want. My favorite template
is this one right here. Just nice and
simple. Grow your email and SMS list. So
if we go right here, we can name it test
video. And then you're going to put in
the list that you want these people to
join. So I do newsletter. And then SMS
subscribers. they're going to join the
SMS subscribers newsletter. Once we
create form, it is just going to upload
right into here. And boom, this is our
signup form builder. We have the
different steps up here. So, we have the
teaser, which is going to be this little
box here, which you can adjust to
different things however you want. You
can actually delete this if you want.
And then you have the different steps
like the email optin, and then the SMS
optin, and then the success page right
here. The first thing that I'm going to
do though is start it off here on the
left side. If you click into styles, you
can adjust the popup such as the size of
it, what sort of a form it is, whether
it's full page or a flyyout, something
like that, or just like a plain popup
like this. The different sizes, what
sort of images you want, maybe you don't
want an image and you just want it to be
this background color, background image,
all this sort of stuff you can update.
And then you can also do targeting and
behavior right here, which is going to
be how is this form actually firing. So
typically for forms, what I like to do
is just do a time delay. So, typically I
like to do just like 4 seconds after
somebody loads their page. We're going
to use this pop-up form. We don't want
to fire it instantly because the person
hasn't even seen any information about
your website, but we don't want to wait
30 seconds because most people that are
visiting your website are only going to
be there for 5 to 10 seconds. So, we
want to make sure we're getting as many
people as possible without firing that
form instantly. So, I like to just do 4
seconds. Remove this scroll. Remove the
exit intent cuz sometimes that can fire
improperly. And right here, we have it
at 4 seconds. And then right here after
visitor closes the form, don't show this
form again after 5 days. Display on both
mobile and desktop. If you just want to
make it mobile exclusive or desktop
exclusive, then you can also do that.
And then click outside form to close.
You can cancel that. Essentially forces
somebody to click this X button rather
than clicking outside this form and it
will close that form. So there's the
display. You can change the targeting if
you want. Automatically it's just not
going to show to anybody who's already
on your email list, but you could have
it show to anybody, whatever you want
here. You can also change if you only
want the pop-up to show on certain parts
of your page, but I'd just keep it
simple just with what it already is. And
now we can kind of adjust this form for
what we want. We have a desktop form and
then we have mobile right here. Ideally,
I like to make separate forms for mobile
and desktop. So, in this instance right
here, we're going to have this form be
our mobile form cuz that's what 80% of
people are going to view. So, I'm going
to change the targeting right here to
just be mobile. So right here with this
form, maybe I want to make it a little
bit taller. Change the minimum height to
something like a,000. And then we can
see it gets a lot bigger right here.
Limited time. I could say usually a
wording that I see work best with uh
pop-up forms is you've got 10% off. So
rather than saying take XYZ discount, if
you say you've got, psychologically, it
feels like the customer already has that
discount and by closing out they lose
that discount. So I'd probably do
something like this. change the size to
be a little bit bigger and then remove
all other copy because any extra copy
that you add is going to increase the
likelihood that they close out of the
form. So you can say you've got 10% off.
You could change these buttons and make
them bigger. Just play around with it
and have some fun. This is a form that I
typically like to do. I make this full
page. We say take 10% off your first
order or you've got 10% off your first
order. Big button right here. Claim 10%
off. Kind of advanced. What I did is I
made a button with a white background
that says no thanks. I'll pay at full
price. And so that person is forced to
click that button and be like, "No, I
don't want this discount." And then it
goes to SMS and we say, "Finish signing
up for 10% off. Claim now or no thanks
and pay a full price." And then the
success page, just start shopping right
here. That's my favorite layout, but do
whatever you want and test it out. So
that's a little bit on signup forms and
how you can grow your list. You can just
turn those live, create a mobile
version, create a desktop version. Now
you have people joining the list. Now we
need to set up our email automations. So
a flow like the welcome flow, which is
going to fire whenever somebody joins
our email list. Somebody signs up for
that pop-up form. What emails are we
going to send them? We're going to want
the welcome flow and at minimum we're
going to also want the checkout
abandoned flow. Somebody goes to
checkout and then leaves. We're going to
want the cart abandoned flow and then
maybe a post-purchase flow. There are
all sorts of other more advanced flows
that you can do and I have other videos
on my channel breaking those down. But
for now, we're just going to start with
kind of like those base ones that we
want to get live. So to set up flows,
all we want to do is go to flows right
here. And then what you can do is you
can create flow. Enclavio actually has a
ton of different templates that you can
use to start out or you can build your
own. In this case, we can actually use
one of those templates. So, let's start
off with the welcome flow for email and
SMS. So, I'd probably do something like
this, like the welcome series standard.
We can just do this for email and then
have it trigger when somebody joins the
newsletter list, which is what is
connected to our pop-up form. Use
template and then it is going to fire
this up for us so that we can create our
emails. So right here we can see the
trigger is somebody joins the newsletter
list. Right here they have us sending an
email right off the bat. Thanks for
signing up. Waiting a couple days and
then another email and then waiting 4
days and then doing a check out our
bests sellers. So this is what the flow
builder looks like right here. What we
have is this flow of events and then you
have these different actions that you
can add. So, if I want to add another
email, I can slop this in right here and
then set up another email just by
clicking onto this and then selecting a
template if I want to do one and
choosing all my settings, email, subject
line, preview text, everything right
there. Typically for the welcome series,
what we want to do in this first email
is remind them of the discount and give
them a little bit of brand information.
So, here is like a designed welcome flow
example. If you wanted to do like three
emails, you could see welcome to this
brand, take 10% off your order with
welcome 10 and then a button. You could
have a sub headline with some body copy
and then list some bestsellers right
here and product categories. Follow that
up with a our story email just like
this. Um, breaking down the story
including pictures of brand founders and
some other images and then like your
brand mission statement. And don't
forget to use this discount code because
it's expiring soon. And then listing out
some selling points right here. And you
can see using those templates how this
could be done for an example brand right
here like this jewelry brand. Just
applying the branding, putting in the
different images. You can see how
professional and effective this is. So
this is inside of Figma, which is a
design tool for graphic design. And all
that we do is we design these emails.
And then if we wanted to bring these
into Clavia, what we would do is use
this slice feature and slice up our
different parts of the email, making
sure to not do two big image slices
because that's going to be super large
size. Usually about 500 in height right
here. And then export as an image. And
then upload those sections back into
Clavia. That's a bit advanced. We don't
need to talk about that right now. If we
go into Clavio, what we could do is we
could just create plain emails just
based off of the templates that Claio
gives us. So, if we go into edit right
here, we can see there's uh different
images. And this is what the email
builder looks like. You can insert
images right here just by clicking
replace, add like a branded picture,
information about the brand. You can
just edit copy right inside of here
inside of Clavio. Edit the size and
everything is right here. It's pretty
straightforward, but you can add in
anything you want inside of Clavio like
your buttons. You can change the sizes
of all of them. You can even add product
sections where it's actually pulling
products from your store as long as you
have it connected correctly. You have
social media links right here.
Everything is just listed out for you.
And then you can delete whatever you
want kind of up here by deleting these
sections. If you want to have a look at
what it looks like on mobile, then you
have that right there. Then boom, you
can adjust and create your emails. Put
your subject lines in here like welcome
to brand, whatever your brand is. And
then preview text uh is going to be what
shows up under the subject line with
something like, "We're so happy to have
you. Here's your discount." And then the
person has to open to receive their
discount. And then we can wait however
long we want. I typically like to do
just one day, for example, just right
here. One day to then hit them with the
next message. And then one day for the
email after that. Clavio has a template
right here. I usually like to do a brand
story email as the next one here. So, we
can go in here and type up some
information about the brand story, add
any images that you want, and then for
the last email, doing something like why
we stand out and kind of a last chance
on your discount. That's a super quick,
easy, and simple welcome flow that you
can implement. Now, the next flow we
want to talk about is something like the
abandoned checkout flow. If somebody
goes to checkout and then doesn't
complete their purchase. Again, we can
create a flow template inside of Clavio
just by looking up the checkout abandon
or actually Clavio calls it a cart
abandon. So we can go into the flows
right here and browse by goal, prevent
lost sales, and look at these different
flows that they have set up. So we have
abandoned cart reminders. We have two
kind of like main ones right here. We
have one that's added to cart trigger
and then one that's an abandoned cart
reminder. But if we click onto this, we
can see that the trigger is checkout
started. So Clavio actually has a big
mistake here cuz this is actually
abandoned checkout. So that's what I'm
going to name this and then we're going
to create this. But typically we're
going to want again the welcome flow,
the checkout abandon are the two main
flows that we want. Then we also have
cart abandon, browse abandoned, if
somebody views a product and then
leaves. And we want post purchase once
somebody buys a product thanking them
for their order. And then something like
a win back flow. If somebody bought 6
months ago, reminding them to come back
and buy from us. So that's the flow side
of things. The last thing we kind of
want to touch on is the campaigns, which
the campaigns are the one-time emails
that you're sending out to the list. So
that's what the majority of these
emails, which we see in my inbox, are
going to be like this restock alert from
this brand. This is something that's not
going to be automated. This is something
that's set in stone. So we have this as
an example. Free steak is back from
Butcherbox right here. And we can see
this is the email that they did. These
are the sort of emails that come from
campaigns. And so with campaigns, once
we're in this tab, we can just create a
campaign. We could say restock. We can
have it an email, SMS, or whatever we
want. We click continue. And then we
have the audience. So this is where all
of our lists and segments are going to
come up. So we can see our lists and
then we can see our different segments.
So typically we just want to be sending
emails to our engaged segments which
this is a segment which I can show you
how to set up. It's essentially anybody
who has opened our emails because we
don't want to send emails to people who
don't want to receive our emails. We
just want to send them to engaged
people. So I'm going to click engage 60.
You can see on this list there are 2300
people. So that's how many people we're
going to be sending to. So we click on
to next. And then we have different
templates that we can use. We have the
subject line and the preview text. So
let's say this was a restock. And then I
could say something like restock new
favorites as the subject line and then
preview text. These went fast last time
dot dot dot. And that could be the
subject line and preview text. And now
we could actually get to creating the
email and designing it. We can go to
email library right here if we wanted to
use some of their templates and try to
edit based on their templates. Or we
could start from scratch just like this
and go back into this email builder
which typically this works just fine.
just have a logo right here of your logo
and then you can drop in like a text box
right here and then write whatever you
want for the email. Then you can edit
right in here and then you can also add
your button. So say you write some copy
uh maybe we want to include an image
right here. We write some copy on
whatever we want and then shop now right
here. Then once we're all set, we can
go. Looks like it lost my subject line
and preview text. But once we're all
ready to go, I'll just fill this in
right here. Then you click on next. You
can see everything kind of summed up for
you. and then you can schedule your
email or send it right here. And it's
really just that simple. So to create
those segments, all we want to do is go
to audience list and segments. We can
create our segments, the different parts
of our list that we want to send to. And
this is what the segment builder looks
like. This is where you can get all
sorts of data about our customers. So I
could create an engaged 60 days list
right here. And what I would do is I
would choose the conditions, what
somebody has done, and then we choose
the metric. So in this case, I want to
do somebody has opened email at least
once in the past 60 days. And if I
create the segment, then it's going to
start finding people in this segment.
And then it's just going to show up
right here. And you can even click right
here and look at how many people have
done that. You can see all these other
segments that I have. So persons placed
order in the past 36 hours. We can see
people who have viewed a product, but
they've placed no orders. Unengaged
people. So, people who have received at
least five emails, but they've opened
email zero times and they've clicked
email zero times. People who have
bounced in the past 10 days. All sorts
of different stuff you can do with your
segments. Typically, the main segment
that we're going to want to send to is
the engaged 60 days. So, I just
calculated and I've spent over 100 hours
studying the smartest and the fastest
growing e-commerce brands like Dr.
Squatch, Ridge, Lollipop, and a stupid
ton more. I did this because I wanted to
find out what these brands are doing so
differently that have allowed them to
scale so fast. And I did find one thing
that they take very seriously that not
many other e-commerce brands do that has
had a huge part of helping their brand
scale profitably. To put simply, they're
just ahead of the curve. And what
they've understood is that ads are
getting more expensive than ever. And
it's getting more expensive to drive
website traffic. And then the site
traffic that they do get isn't buying
like they used to. The customer is a lot
more careful with their money. They
don't have stimulus checks of 2020
anymore. and there are thousands of
other brands popping up every single day
that the customer could leave your site
and then go check out. So, it's getting
more expensive to drive site traffic and
then that site traffic is converting
less resulting in a lot of brands
struggling to scale at a profit. So,
there needs to be some mechanism to get
website traffic and educate them on why
they should go with your brand over one
of the other thousands of competitors
and get them to purchase with content
for cheap. Because people aren't just
buying the first time they visit your
website. And that mechanism to capture
your website traffic is with email
pop-up forms. And it sounds stupid,
something as simple as an email pop-up,
which you probably just used a template
and put up on your website. But I've
seen over 15 different pop-up form
variations from Dr. Squatch in just the
last month. So, they're taking it pretty
serious. And 95% of the brands I audit
completely f this up by either not
having a pop-up form or just having a
low performing pop-up and living with
it. This results again in your expensive
ad traffic going to your website,
leaving, and then never coming back
again. Or you have to reel them back in
by sending them more ads and more ads,
which are just way more expensive than
they need to be. Meanwhile, these smart
e-commerce brands are maximizing the
amount of people they can get email
addresses from, so that they can send
them emails for fraction of pennies to
send them content on what happens to be
the most used mode of communication on
the planet, which is email. Pretty
convenient. Yeah. And just to show you
how big of an impact this can be, here's
a client example. You can see the
revenue going from $7,000 per month to
$25,000 a month. And all we did for this
brand was improve their pop-up form.
There was no extra ad spend. We took the
pop-up form submission rate from 2.5% to
8.75% which is a 3.5x. And look at that.
They increased their revenue by 3.5x.
Same site traffic, same AOV, same
welcome flow, but just a different
pop-up form getting more people to see
that welcome flow, which was performing
really well. So today I'm going to show
you how to optimize your email pop-ups
and get people to buy at a higher rate
without having to spend any more on ads.
Okay. So first I want to be clear on the
KPI and the performance that we want on
our pop-up forms. And that ideally is a
10% opt-in rate on your pop-ups. Meaning
10% of unique website visitors that you
have will convert into subscribers. So,
if you bring in 50,000 unique visitors a
month, then you can expect with a 10%
converting pop-up form to bring in 5,000
email subscribers. And to prove this is
possible, here are a couple clients over
the past 30 days that we've implemented
these forms for. You can see all the
conversion rates on the left side. And
then this last one, AB test showing
their old form at 7% and some of the
tests that we set up. So, how do we do
this? Let's get into it. Step one, we
need to start with a strong offer. Your
offer is everything. Not quite
everything. That was kind of dramatic,
but it's very important. No one's just
going to join an email list for
exclusive information or weekly updates.
No, this isn't a charity. People aren't
just going to willy-nilly throw around
their email address. They need something
valuable in return. I've tested doing
like free guides or like PDF documents
versus like discounts and doing like
free gifts in terms of revenue and
profit. Discounts and free gifts just
consistently outperform free guides. You
can execute a free guide funnel, but I
have not had a test where it performs
better than just giving a simple
discount. So, I recommend just use a
discount and don't try to get too too
fancy. You don't need any crazy
discount. 10% 20%, those are fine. And I
recommend if you have an AOV of above
$100, use a dollar off discount. And if
your AOV is below $100, do a percent off
discount. If your average order is $500
and you do a 10% discount with your
first order, then really what you're
giving is $50 off. And if I went up to
you and was like, "Hey, here's 10% off."
Versus if I went up to you and was like,
"Hey, here's a $50 bill." Probably the
$50 bill would sound better. So
typically with brands that have a higher
AOV, we want our offer to be dollars
off. If your AOV is $50 and we're giving
10% off, usually 10% off sounds better
than like $5 off. What does work really
really good as well is a free gift with
purchase. So something like, "Hey, get a
free sample pack on your first order."
Or, "Hey, get an extra blank t-shirt if
you place an order above $100." Those
work great. And just a pro tip, try a
mystery discount. People just love
mysteries. They love the curiosity, and
they will sign up with their email just
to see what the discount is. And then
you can educate them into a purchase and
get them to convert down the line.
Here's an example. You can see the form
submit rate on the right side. 7.3%
submit rate for the top one, which was
just saying, "Hey, sign up for your
email for 10% off." versus the bottom
one where we said, "Hey, sign up with
your email for a mystery discount." A
lot more people sign up for the mystery
discount. Literally two times more
people. And what did we get? Double the
list growth. Run that for two years and
we probably have double the email
revenue as well. More people on your
email list, more revenue. So, make sure
you nail your offer. Make sure it's
clear. And then you'll be good to move
on to the next step. Step two, we want
to choose our popup type. So, what kind
of a form do we want to run? So, there
really only three options that you need
to choose from. We have the classic, the
micro commit, and the quiz popup. The
classic is just the typical sort of
like, "Hey, 10% off. Enter your email."
And we just ask that on the first step,
which you can see here. And when
somebody signs up, we just say, "Welcome
in, keep shopping." Usually, this is the
lowest performer, just because this is
what everybody does. The customer is
used to it, and there's nothing
interactive about it, which then brings
us to the next one, which is the micro
commit, which is an added step for the
customer where first we ask them, "Hey,
do you want 10% off?" And there's just a
yes or no button. After somebody clicks
yes, then the email pops up and it's
like, "Okay, enter your email." seems so
counterintuitive that adding an extra
step increases the pop-up conversion
rates, but for some reason it just does.
There's a psychological trigger in
humans where if you start doing
something, you're much more likely to
follow through. So, if we just put a
simple form in their face where it's
just like, "Hey, do you want a discount?
Yes or no?" They're like, "Yes, I do."
And they don't know that an email step
is coming up next. So, they just say,
"Yes, I want the discount." They click
it and then we ask for the email. For
some reason, psychologically in humans,
once we start doing something, it's
like, "Ah, I already started with this.
I might as well just enter my email."
And then even after that, you could be
finished signing up with SMS as like the
step after that and they're like, "Ah, I
already entered my email. I'm so close
to getting the discount. Might as well
put in my phone number." And then this
brings up the last one, which is similar
to the micro commit, and that is the
quiz. The quiz is the same sort of deal
where we're not asking for the email
right off the bat. We're asking the
customer to answer a question or quiz
like this example for a brand, which is
like baby apparel. And we ask like, "Are
you a parent? Are you buying a gift? Or
are you expecting a baby?" Now, this is
so much more interactive for the
customer. They feel like it's custom to
them. And not a lot of brands are doing
this and it just converts like crazy.
The customer feels like they earn their
discount and so they opt in at a much
higher rate. So after they answer that
quiz question then it's the same sort of
micro commit deal where it's like
awesome you have your discount just give
us your email. It works like a charm and
we get data from the customer which we
can then send them custom information
for which is a little bit advanced but
it's something that you absolutely could
do. So my favorite is doing the quiz. As
far as the best performing the quiz can
be harder to execute if you don't know
like all the best practices but it does
convert the best. And then the micro
commit is usually next and then just
straight to email. But test them all.
Every audience is different. Okay, so we
know what form type we're going to use.
Now, let's actually put this into
practice with what are the best
practices. What do you need to know when
you're building your form? First, we
want to make sure we have minimal text,
as little as possible. The more text we
put, the more overwhelmed the customer
is going to be and the more they're
going to want to leave. Make sure your
headline just like, "Do you want 10% off
or take a mystery discount?" It's at
maximum six words, ideally four to six.
And try not to use any other text. You
can use a little subtext if you need to,
like on a quiz. We want to remove
everything. Every extra word you add
will increase your churn. Just keep it
dead simple. Just like here's 10% off.
And then next, for your call to actions,
you don't want to say continue. If I
have a pop-up that says take 10% off and
it has an email field and then it says
continue. When I see that, I know,
shoot, continue. That means I'm not
done. I'm going to have to enter my
phone number. I'm just going to leave
now. I don't want to give these guys my
number. We want our call to actions to
just say claim now, activate discount,
anything like that. We want to make sure
the barrier to entry seems super low for
the customer. And then third, super
important that I see a lot of brands
mess up is don't ask for more than one
input per step on the same form. We
don't want to ask for somebody's email
and phone number at the same time. When
the customer sees that, that looks like
a lot of work. Rather than separating
things and just having email first and
then SMS a step after, it's the same
thing about like asking for somebody's
first name. Never do that. It's added
work for the customer. It's going to
increase the churn. Test this for
yourself. Have a pop-up form with like
first name and email versus just one
that says email. I guarantee the email
will perform 25 to 50% better and make
you more money than the extra money you
get from somebody by having their first
name. It's pretty Having
somebody's first name in a subject line,
it's not going to increase your revenue
25 to 50%. So, don't do it. One input
per step. And then four, just do as
simple of a design as possible. Don't do
too much. Don't distract. Don't have
images. You can execute maybe like one
simple image, but I like my forms to be
as simple as possible. Nothing crazy. We
want our message to just be focused on
the offer. 10% off. Anything that isn't
on that will distract. Tip number five.
If you can, if you want to be
aggressive, remove the X in the top
right corner of your pop-up forms. Why?
Because when somebody sees a pop-up
form, immediately they have been trained
to have their thumb already start moving
to the top right corner. We don't want
to give people that option cuz they
aren't even going to read our form.
Right? right when they see a pop-up,
their thumb is moving to the top right
corner. So, we want to remove that and
put the close button somewhere else in
the form, like at the bottom under the
submit button. And that ties into the
last tip here is using a no thanks,
close form button. Instead of having
that X in the top right corner, have a
button below that says no thanks. Or if
you want to be even more aggressive, you
say no thanks, I'll pay at full price.
Cuz then we're forcing somebody to close
out by saying no, I will give away the
free money that you're giving me. It's a
little bit more aggressive, but it works
every single time. Now, I want to walk
through a couple of bad examples so you
know kind of like what to avoid. First,
we have this one where the offer just
doesn't look compelling. It says 5% off,
and it's really hard to read the offer.
There's just a lot of words here. But
the main thing is the offer 5% off.
Nobody wants that. But this brand's
average order value was $1,000. What
sounds better? 5% off or $50 off? We
want to make it clear that it's $50 off.
So, I would have changed the offer to
that. And then coming up on this next
one, it's kind of blurry, but holy input
fields. How many people are actually
going to fill this out? Nobody. There's
just a lot going on. There's so much for
the customer. We want to remove all
that. Just ask for somebody's email. And
then we have this one right here.
Combination of different things. For
one, the X in the top right corner is
very easy to see. So, people are just
going to automatically close out.
There's a lot of words, like three
paragraphs of information. And we're
asking for somebody's first name and
their email, which we don't want to do
that. That's too much work. Then we also
put our social media on the popup. Like,
what is that crazy? Then we have this
one. Way too many words. There's just a
lot of stuff. People are brain dead when
they're going to their website. They
don't want all this stuff that they have
to read. I'd just say something like,
"Get a free workout class sent to you."
Or not workout class, but a free
business class or whatever. And then
this last one here, there's a lot of
copy and I bet you didn't even realize
that there's a discount in there. The
10% off is so buried. So, somebody looks
at this pop-up and then they're
automatically closing it out. What's in
it for them? We need to make sure our
offer is very clear. So, those are some
bad examples. Hopefully, that helped you
kind of like see my thought process and
what works. and then that list of best
practices, apply those to your forms.
So, step four now, let's actually create
these forms. There really only two
options in my mind for creating these
forms. And the first option is just on
Clavio or whatever email sending
platform that you use, which is free and
can work great, and we do that for a lot
of our clients, and we work with over
seven and eight figure e-commerce
brands. However, you are limited on some
stuff. If you can and you're on Shopify,
I would recommend allallearn.com. It's
an outside pop-up platform that we use
for roughly half of our clients right
now. It is the best pop-up form platform
out there. We consistently have over 10%
opt-in rates and their team is killer.
And if you say that I sent you, just go
to their website and you'll get 20% off
just by mentioning me. I'll walk through
creation of forms on both of them. So
you can check them out in the different
differences. Okay, so I have here just a
mock clavia. And what I'm going to do is
I'm going to create this form. I'm just
going to do for mobile. I like to
separate my forms, have a mobile one and
a desktop one. Make sure that they're
both optimized for the device. But with
mobile, I usually just like to start
with this template right here. once you
go into signup forms and then we can
kind of just start with this. So if we
go over here and then click mobile, this
is like the base option that they give
us. So right here, we could just edit
right here on this form and do a
variation that goes straight to email.
But I want to set up a micro commit and
then also a quiz so I can show you guys
how to build that inside of Claio. So
super easy. We have these two steps, the
email optin and the SMS. I'm just going
to clone this email one and then name
this that first step the micro commit.
We clone it and then it's going to pop
up here. And then we just drag it to be
that first step. And all we want to do
is remove this email input field here.
And then right here, this is our micro
commit. So we can just say, do you want
10% off? And then we can remove any text
here that we want and just have this be
like a yes, please. And then we're going
to add another button down here. Just
edit the text. Yes, please. And then to
add a no thanks button down here, we're
just going to add a block. Drag in a
button. Then on this button, we want the
action up here to be close form. And
then we just say, "No thanks." And if
you want to be more aggressive, you
could say something like, "I'd rather
pay at full price." So then the customer
has to physically say, "No, I'm paying
at full price." And to get even more
aggressive, we can remove this X in the
corner by changing the actual like the
line right here. We can just make the
opacity clear. So now it's completely
clear and people are forced to say,
"Yes, please," or, "No, thanks. cuz I'll
pay a full price. And if we want to do
that here, even on this button, we can
change the background to be clear as
well. And then make the text black so
that we can actually see it. And then I
always like to add a logo up above here
just to brand it.
Change the font to be my brand's fonts.
And then boom. This is a fire step right
here. Easy micro commit. Just do you
want 10% off? Yes, please. Or no,
thanks. Then this next step, just adjust
the branding.
Change the copy to something like you've
got 10% off. And then put the image back
in here.
And then boom. But also very important,
we have this X hidden. So every single
step, we need to add this button down
here so that somebody isn't absolutely
locked in.
And then boom, we are all set here. I
just want to change this call to action.
We don't want to say continue because
somebody knows they're going to have to
enter their SMS information. So I would
say something like claim now. Boom.
There's the micro commit, the email
optin, and then I won't do SMS, but
super simple. You can just do whatever
you want there. I won't update the
branding just for saving time, but boom,
there's an easy micro commit form right
there. Now, what if we wanted to do a
quiz-based pop-up where we had multiple
options and it's like, "Hey, you've got
this discount. Tell us what problem
you're trying to solve and then give
somebody options so that we can get data
from the customer." That's actually
very, very easy as well. So, all we want
to do is add more buttons just right
next to this and then change the answers
to be different things. So, let's say I
was a fashion brand and I wanted to get
data on if my customer was a male or a
female. Then I would say something like
you've got 10% off. We want to say
you've got because psychologically it
tells somebody you already have this
discount and if they deny it, they don't
want to lose something. Psychologically
it just works better. So I'd say you've
got 10% off and then I would drag in a
text box below with instructions for the
quiz.
I'd say something like just tell us what
you're shopping for and then adjust the
branding font.
So boom, we've added this little line
here. You can adjust it, change the size
or whatever, whatever you want. I won't
be super picky. And then we just want to
adjust these to be the same stylings.
And then this one to say male and the
other to say female.
And then boom, just like that, you've
got this discount. To claim it, tell us
what you're shopping for, male and
female. But we also want to have in
Claio the data on what they say. So what
you can do right here is submit the
hidden fields and then we can add a
property for gender. If they click this
then it's going to be male and if they
click this it's going to be female. So
what we do is we can just add a
property. You might already have it in
your Clavio but if not you can just
create gender right here and then enter
male and then boom it will create it
once somebody enters. Super key. Also
this said close form. We just want it to
be submit form just like the other. Add
the property and set the value as
female. And then boom, we have a fully
functioning quiz popup right here. Male,
female, and you can split your flows
accordingly. People can still close out
if they want to. And then we have the
email opt-in and then SMS right here if
you want. You can also change this to
you've got a mystery discount, adjust
the sizing, make it all on one line.
This is how you can do everything just
right inside of Clavio. And now I'm
going to show you how to do pop-ups on
the other platform, Alia Learn, right
here, which again, if you say that I
sent you, you get 20% off. So all you
have to do, I just have a demo store
right here. It's added as a Shopify app.
And so you just have to go through their
app just inside of Shopify. It is going
to load up like this. And then we can
create our forms. So I'd want to go over
here to campaigns, yada yada yada. Skip
the tour. And here I have just like
mockup stuff. But if I want to create a
new pop-up, I'm just going to click
create. can name this test YouTube. You
can choose what pages you want it to
show on. I'll just say all pages. I'll
do all devices as well. This is all
good. Go to continue. And then what we
are going to do is we're going to follow
these steps to create our pop-up. So for
the first step, like the little corner
of the screen, um popup, we're going to
put it in the bottom left corner. The
first step, let's do a poll question
just like we did, but you can see yes,
no, a micro commitment here as well.
We're just going to do email. And then
if you want to do phone, you can as
well. Logo. I'm just going to upload my
logo.
Just uploaded my logo there. Go to next.
The reward. We can do whatever is set up
in your account. 20% off. And then you
can have like different logic on the
form here like lessons. Lessons. So,
it'll walk you through this. But if you
want like people to answer multiple
questions and get rewarded for it, you
can do that. But I'm just going to do
none for now for simplicity. And then we
get all sorts of different test layouts
right here that they let us do with like
sort of templates. Super simple. So all
of these are very clean for simplicity.
I'm just going to go with this one.
Click finish. And then right here, this
is where you can actually go into the
editor. And it's definitely, you can
tell, a lot more advanced than the one
inside of Clavio. So right here, I'd say
you've got whatever discount that you
need. You can edit over here. Change
this to say 10% off. Then you can change
this to be to claim your discount. tell
us what you're shopping for and then the
answer male for this one female. It's
super easy to do and they also can build
anything for you. Their team's awesome.
They'll respond to you and get all these
initial forms built out. You can even
preview it just right here. You can also
replay the animation. Super easy. And
then you can see the different steps
right here. So, it's very simple. Start
out with templates and then add whatever
anything else you want. Have you ever
sat down and looked at your email
marketing account and thought, "There
has to be a better way to get these
emails to actually convert." Most ecom
brands right now are either sending too
little email campaigns, leaving a ton of
revenue on the table, or they're sending
just too much BS to their list and
burning out their list. And even worse,
they're guessing on what they send,
copying what everyone else is doing, and
sending aimless emails with no actual
strategy behind them. And then they
wonder why their click rates drop and
their revenue plateaus. This new
playbook is the answer. This is the
exact system that we've used to generate
over $100 million in e-commerce sales in
just the past 18 months. Nobody else is
teaching email strategy like this. So,
let's just get right into it. So, why is
this video important? Ad costs are
rising and to be honest with you,
they're not going down. We're having to
pay even more every single day to get
site traffic and acquire customers,
which makes retaining our margins in our
backend the number one most important
focus for surviving in this market and
actually scaling. Now, many brands are
just throwing around monthly discounts
to try to get conversions, which is just
going to kill themselves in the long
run. The brands who are utilizing modern
strategies like the ones I'm showing you
in this video to maintain high profits
will be here for over 5 years. While the
brands just throwing their profits away
with discounts and improper email
marketing are just going to fizzle out
in 1 to two years. So if we want to
build a strong strategy that gets people
to convert, we have to understand the
state of the market in 2025 in 2026. We
can't build a strategy if we don't know
what's going on. So the first thing to
know is that competition is crazy. It's
fierce right now. There's a thousand new
brands launching every single week and
customers are overwhelmed with all the
options and loyalty is lower than ever.
To get somebody to buy from you once,
that doesn't mean they're going to keep
buying from you because there are new
brands popping up every single day and
people like new. They like to shop
around. That brings us to number two,
which is shoppers love to browse. The
experience of discovering brands is half
of the fun. Um it's always like a game.
It's like, I found this new awesome
brand and it's kind of just fun for
people. So social feeds are literally
the new shopping mall. Um, people are
going to malls lower than ever and
customers are bouncing between five to
10 brands before they decide who to buy
from. Number three, trust is the new
currency because years of online scams
and poor experiences and all the
different drop shippers out there who
may not be delivering a good experience
for their customers has made the
customer skeptical. They want to know
who you are, not just what you sell. And
number four, you need to earn the sale.
Buying used to be impulsive kind of in
the COVID era, but now it really takes
multiple touch points across channels to
build enough trust to get people to
convert. And so this is kind of like the
skeptical sort of like customer right
here of who is this brand? I've been
scammed online buying before. Why not go
with one of the other 50 brands in the
industry? What are people saying about
this brand? This is the stuff that the
customer is thinking about. And then
also for them, they love shopping
around. OMG, yay. So many cool brands
and products to choose from. They have
the world at their fingertips and it's
fun. So that's kind of where we're at
with the market right now. So now let's
talk about email marketing in 2025. Now,
email marketing is the number one option
for sending content, building trust, and
staying top of- mind with customers for
a few different reasons. Number one,
email marketing is cheap. It is the
cheapest marketing channel that you're
going to find out there, which makes
getting an ROI from it even easier for
you. Number two, you own it completely.
It is your audience, your list. You
don't have to worry about any outside
factors or people. Number three, it's
predictable and scalable. You know that
if you have x amount of people on your
email list and they're a warm audience,
you can get them to convert at a
percentage of your total sales. Like for
example, most of our clients at around
40% of their total store revenue coming
from email every single month. So that
if their ads get shut down or their ad
account gets banned, they know that with
email, they have a steady baseline of
revenue coming in. And then as the brand
scales, the list and total revenue will
scale. Number four, it increases your
customer goodwill. If you're sending the
right content, you're not just spamming
across ads and then also the email list
with discounts. You're building trust
and sending good content. Then you will
build goodwill. Number five, nobody can
take it away. Zuck cannot shut down your
email list. So you are kind of playing
and with Zuck in ads, you're at the
mercy of him. He can kind of charge
whatever and you're kind of forced to
just pay it. Not with email. It's yours.
So to put it simply, email is the
cheapest way to get traffic from people
who already know, like, and trust you.
Sounds great to me. So now we need to
get to actually how do we execute on
email marketing? And it all starts with
ideulating and building high converting
email marketing calendars. So this
brings up the first question of how many
email campaigns should you send? Now,
every brand is different and of course
it depends, but three times per week is
typically the sweet spot for retaining
your list while also getting good
consistent revenue. I wouldn't recommend
going any lower than two times per week,
no matter your ecom store size. Some
brands who are smaller, they're
concerned about not sending enough. Some
concerned about sending too much, but it
doesn't matter your list size. We need
to keep them engaged. And two times per
week is that good sweet spot. See,
sending one to two times per week, the
customer just kind of forgets about you
and the customers are just unable to
form a habit of opening your emails.
It's not consistent. and you're not
staying top of mind and so you're kind
of just leaving money on the table.
Whereas sending five to seven times per
week, you can get higher unsubscribes.
Customers can get a bit annoyed and it
dilutes the power of your messaging.
Every email holds a little bit less
weight and then at a certain point the
revenue is going to plateau. Whereas we
found that sending two to four times per
week is higher revenue, lower
unsubscribes. You're able to stay top of
mind with customer in every email has
the same equal weight and impact. This
is kind of just like once per week,
everybody's going to forget that you
exist. Whereas like sending four times
per week, the customer gets to know your
brand. And even if they don't open the
emails, the recognition of seeing your
brand is going to get you sales. So, as
far as like a sending rule of thumb to
kind of like give you something to gauge
off of. I put this together, and this is
going to go off of store revenue or
monthly site visitors. We like to use
monthly site visitors as a metric, too,
because this will impact list growth and
new subscribers coming in. We can send
more emails if we have high site traffic
because we can risk more unsubscribes
because we always have a lot of new
people coming in consistently to the
list through our pop-up form from which
hopefully you're optimizing. So the
pop-up form is the most important part
of your ecom funnel. So if you're kind
of at the 0 to 50k a month store revenue
or monthly site visitors around 0 to 25k
a month, I would recommend two times per
week. If you're kind of in the 50k to
250k a month and you're getting 25k to
50k uh monthly site visitors and that
can go kind of like maybe to 100k a
month, I would recommend more at the 3x
per week. If you got 250k to 1 mil a
month and 50k to 250k monthly site
visitors, 4x per week is a good sweet
spot. Then if you're over 1 mil a month,
250k plus monthly site visitors, then we
want to go with kind of like 5 to six
per week to then seven per week sending
every single day. The more you send, the
more unsubscribes you will get, but as
long as you're just replenishing this
with new leads coming into the email
list, then you're good to send at this
frequency. So you know how many emails
that you are sending, but what exactly
should you send? We have a few different
content pillars that we want to send
emails for. We have educational emails,
which is going to be like frequently
asked questions or ingredient education.
We have social proof emails like
customer testimonials, media features,
anything like that that proves how
reliable your brand is. We have
community or branded content like a
brand story, founder messages. We have
product or collection highlights, so
just highlighting specific products,
trending gift guides, or single product
feature. And then of course we have
sales such as your limited discounts.
Now we find a good cadence for sending
is to have an even amount of these five
different content pillars. For example,
if you send 10 emails per month, which
is going to be roughly twoish per week,
you could have two educational emails,
two social proof emails, two product
specific promotions, two community or
branded content emails, and then one
sale that is taking up two emails. And
that is a good way to look at everything
here. And I'm going to give you a ton of
different campaign ideas that you can
use. But one thing I want to make sure
that we're doing is mixing our graphic
and our textbased emails. This is the
new stuff that works in 2025 and 2026.
We want to balance these two. We have
our graphic based emails which are
needed for our branding and showing off
our products. We need to appeal to our
customers visually. And these are also
great for list engagement because we
can't just send the same stuff or the
same type of visuals to the list over
and over again. They're going to get
bored. They're not getting dopamine from
this and they're just going to
unsubscribe. But we also need to do the
textbased emails which are the secret
sauce. These are literally plain text
emails that look like they're coming
from a friend in your inbox. These
convert so well because they add a
personal touch because you want to make
it come from a person. They're super
duper simple and they're just really
easy for the customer to click and go to
your website. So, we want mostly graphic
based emails to keep the list engaged
visually, but then strategically mix in
our textbased emails for a couple of
cents to a month um to give that
personal feel that customers will
convert at a high rate from. So, we can
look like this graphic based email here.
Kind of what you'd expect for a graphic
based email. This is a great graphic
based email. We're going to break down
uh how to do the design here. And then
we have this textbased email right here,
which is comes from an actual person
from the team. Looks like it's coming
from a friend. What does it taste like?
And it just is super quick. Overcomes a
common objection. And then it goes to if
you're ready to claim yours, use this
discount code. Much love. Super
personal. And that's how you can build a
fan base of people who actually like
you. We want to make sure that we're
mixing these in. And you can have
textbased emails be any of these content
pillars. Just mix it up and don't be too
predictable because the customer does
not want predictability. They want to be
surprised and they want new. Okay. So,
how can we build a strong monthly
calendar? These are four resources that
you can use to come up with ideas that
are banger ideas. One is we can use MILD
right here, which is just a database of
pretty much every single brand out there
that's big. And you can look at their
exact email calendars that they're
using. So, you can literally see all the
brands that I'm following right here if
you want to follow some of them. So,
like if I sell accessories or clothing,
I might go to like this brand Casey and
I can actually look at all the emails
that they're sending including their
frequency. Like this is an awesome email
right here. Your passport to summer.
This is super creative. It's like a
passport and it's fun. It's talking
about the products and then it links to
these different products that go with
summer that you might want to use. Love
that. This is brilliant. And the odds
that a customer is on your email list
and then also this brand's email list
are incredibly low. So you can literally
steal ideas and you could use this
passport idea if you wanted to. But
essentially you can just follow brands
right here and then it'll show up just
in your main mil uh section right here.
And this is my number one way for
getting email ideas. And then also I've
attached a swipe file here of 84 high
converting emails backed by me $100
million email marketer. You can use this
to get some ideas on different angles
that I like. These are all non-discount
emails. And then you could use the 100
email ideas listed below in the next
slide. And also you can use AI to
strategically build out your calendar
which I'm going to be showing you. So
here are 100 high-converting email ideas
fixed into the five different content
pillars that I showed you. There's a
little bit of information with each one.
So we have our educational emails right
here. We have our social proof emails.
We have our community and branded based
emails. product or collection highlights
and then also the sales and different
sales that you could be running. So use
this. This doc's going to be in the
description so that you can have this
for yourself and use these ideas. Then
also you can use AI for calendar
creation. I have another resource for
you. It's the email marketing brain.
It's a custom GPT that I've trained with
over 500 pages of email marketing
knowledge which can be used to make
calendars, come up with email ideas and
answer questions you may have. It's
free. The link is right here.
Wellcopy.net/GPT.
And here's like how the process looks.
On the homepage, you click the main
menu. The main menu is going to ask,
"What are you looking for?" You want to
click D, which is create me an email
marketing campaign calendar. It's going
to ask you for some information on the
brand. And then boom, you can see the
results and then some examples of what
your calendar could look like. The one
supplement you're underusing, your gains
checklist for August, National Family
Day, behind the scenes, your muscles
don't grow in the gym. So, you can see
how it's mixing in all these different
pillars, which I mentioned. It's because
I trained this. So, I highly recommend
using that. And so, here's like what an
example calendar for Nike may look like.
And I'm just using just like four emails
per week. But you can see you have a
campaign March favorites science behind
tech fleece. So mixing in a little bit
of educational content. Then we have a
sale right here. Free hat with orders
above $150. Campaign education tips for
warming up not really selling them. And
then we have a restock. So product
highlight. We have a blog for education
bestselling product feature. And then a
sale for St. Patrick's Day. And then
some social proof campaign celebrity
feature. And then a scientific study.
Some more education. Then a product
feature right here. And then a new
release because I assume they'll be
releasing items. So that's an example.
calendar. Use this yourself and use the
resources that I gave you. So now let's
get into segmentation, which is
essentially who are you sending these
emails to. So segments are very similar
to lists, but they're different in one
key way. Lists inside of the platforms
that you're using, mainly Clavio, are
completely stagnant. It's just a flat
list of people, whereas segments are
dynamic. They can change at any second
based on requirements that you set. It
is just a segment of your full list, a
subset of people who meet a certain
characteristics that you provide. For
example, that would be something like
anybody who has bought two times in
their life. There might be 4,000 people
in that segment. That's what a segment
is. And so, why do we want to segment
our campaigns? Why not blast to our
whole entire list? Well, segmentation
allows you to pinpoint certain members
of your list so you can gather data and
create targeted emails to send based on
where they are at in their customer
journey. Now, the benefits of proper
segmentation are going to be improved
deliverability, increase your inbox
placement rate, and go less to the spam
folder. If you can use proper
segmentation and only send to people who
are interested in you, you can get more
sales if you're more targeted and more
intentional. You can save time with a
lot of the automation and figuring
things out. You can have a personalized
customer experience if you have
segmented specific emails. So these are
like some basic segmentation use cases
in the main ones that we want to follow.
The most important and what 95% of your
segmentation is going to be is engage
list for improved deliverability. We
want to segment our list for campaigns
to only include people who have recently
opened or clicked emails. So, we ensure
that we're only sending emails to people
who want to open our emails. If we send
to people who aren't opening our emails,
Gmail will notice and send to spam. If
not a lot of people are opening our
emails, Gmail thinks, "Oh, these people
don't want to receive this brand's
emails. They're sending spam content, so
we're going to send them to spam."
Whereas, if you send emails with proper
segmentation only to people who are
interested in receiving your emails,
you're going to get high open rates. A
lot of people will be opening your
email, and then Gmail will look at that
and be like, "Oh, this is a cool brand
that people want to listen to." And so,
they can go to the main inbox. So, we
want to make sure that we're using good
segments there. Then, number two,
interested customers for more sales. So,
we can target people who have been
active on our site or even added items
to cart but haven't made a purchase and
send them extra content to try to get
them to cross the line. We can also have
targeted campaigns based on product
interests. So, we can create segments
based on people who have viewed a
specific product or category and send
them content. And then also, we can
pinpoint unengaged profiles so that we
can suppress these people who haven't
been engaging and we're already going to
naturally churn. Since they aren't
opening our emails, we want to remove
them from our list so that we are not
harming our deliverability and then we
can suppress them and save money on our
email marketing bill because we're
getting charged by our number of
profiles. Now, the possibilities of
segmentation are literally endless, but
we don't want to get too complicated
here. Yes, we could hyper segment our
list by each of their favorite colors
and if their belly button is an Inie or
an Audi. And yes, that would probably
increase your conversion rate if you're
able to send targeted emails to each one
of these people. But at what cost? Would
you rather send one to two hyperargeted
campaigns to a week? Would you rather
send one to two hyperargeted campaigns
per week to different small email groups
of like 10,000 people or just send three
to four broader email campaigns that are
each getting sent to 50,000 people? The
latter will perform 99 times out of 100.
Yes, you can do this segmentation and
have some targeted stuff. But typically,
your lists are just going to be super
small for your targeted stuff and you're
not going to make as much money as if
you just go broad and try to send to as
many people as you can. So, don't get
too carried away from the basics. I
recommend just focus on broader
segmentation based on engagement. So
these are some key segments and use
cases that you want to use. These are
really the only segments that you should
be worrying about. And if you're
concerned about any other segments, you
shouldn't be unless you're doing over 1
mil a month or have a very specific use
case. So this is going to be the list
that you send 95% of your sends with.
This is literally all you need. You can
use any time frame. 90 days is typically
recommended to start. It's your base
segment. Only send our emails to our
active subscribers because if we send to
unengaged people, we're going to hurt
our engagement rates. So, this is going
to be people who can receive email
marketing because they haven't
unsubscribed. Someone who has opened
email in the past 90 days, someone who
has been active on our website or
they've placed an order in the last 90
days. This is literally all that you
need to send to. And then for sales, you
can send to the whole list. Next, this
is just like cool information to have.
We can have like high potential
purchasers. So, somebody who hasn't
placed an order in the past 30 days, but
they've been active on site. What you
could do is you could send one to two
extra emails per month for them to try
to get them to cross the line. We have
win back potential customers. So,
there's going to be anybody who it
depends on your store and how often
people are typically coming back, but
you could set a time frame of anybody
within 90 to 150 days was the last time
that they placed an order. And we can
send extra emails for them or we can set
up a flow, automated emails where
anytime somebody enters this segment. We
get them into a couple emails of like,
hey, we miss you or you are interested
in this product. Why don't you get this
product? Anything like that. Of course,
we have our VIP customers, which you can
set the different parameters that you
want, but that could be anybody who's
placed an order four times or more
overall time. And you could have this
trigger an email flow, or you can send
like one extra VIP email every quarter
with like a special offer for them. And
then this is an interesting one that you
can send targeted campaigns to, which is
going to be interested in X product or
category. Somebody has viewed an item
where the category is this, or they've
added that category to cart, or they've
started checkout with it, or they've
placed an order with that item or
category. And then you can have a list
of people who are interested in that
specific thing on your website. And then
we have our suppress list. So this is
going to be our list where every single
month we want to suppress these people
because they're clogging up our account
and they're driving up our bill. So
essentially this is going to be anybody
who can't receive emails cuz they've
subscribed, they've received at least
five emails over all time and they've
opened emails zero times in the last 365
days or they've bounced email at least
three times or they've marked an email
as spam. We don't want to send any
emails to these people and we should be
suppressing these people every month on
Clavio. Just an overall segmentation
tip, just send email campaigns to your
90-day engaged list. We achieved these
results of all of this by sending to the
engaged list pretty much exclusively.
You can see the placed order right here
of just sending to these 90-day engaged
lists and every once in a while opening
things up. Don't go too crazy. Just use
your engaged list. So, now let's talk
about our copy and design and what's
working in 2025 and 2026. So, we need to
understand the 2025 and 2026 customer is
absolutely scared of reading. With Tik
Tok, Instagram, Snapchat offering
instant dopamine. You can't blame them.
The average time you have with a
customer's attention span has shrunk
drastically in the last few years.
Before you could have an average of
maybe like 5 to 10 seconds of attention
per email, but now you maybe have 3
seconds of someone's attention. Your
ability to get somebody to convert off
your emails is completely dependent on
how fast and efficiently you can get
your point across. That's what we need
to understand. Now, copy and design go
together. They are intertwined. As you
are writing copy, you must be thinking
of the layout of your email and the
design and how these flow and work
together. Reading and then visually
appealing to our customers are one in
one. They go hand in hand. If your copy
is written out in massive blocks and
paragraphs and you're not thinking about
how it's going to look designed, then
your design is going to be limited cuz
it's just going to be blocks of copy.
Like for example, at my agency,
WellCopy, we tackle both copy and design
at once using these following
principles. The three different pillars
that we need to focus on for our email
copy that you should be judging your
copy with is SCE. Skimable is going to
be this first one, which is literally
just means no blocks of copy. We need to
break up our copy. We need to add line
breaks. We need to use bolding and
headlines because our modern customer
has a Tik Tok brain. If they can't just
skim our email in 3 seconds, it's not
going to get read. So, here's like an
example of what skimable looks like. The
use of clear sections, quick copy, and
bolded points. This email can be skimmed
in under 3 seconds. Okay, we'll spill
the milk. D packed with protein, zero
sugar, 100% gluten-ree. Oh, I just went
gluten-free. Let me read this back again
and get some more information. That
could be the thought process of a
customer. bolded headlines right here
with the main points and copy that's
short and sweet. That's what we want for
it to be skimable. The second pillar is
clear and concise. We want to focus on
one core takeaway per email when we can.
Our customers are in zombie mode in our
inbox. We want to make our message
obvious and easy to absorb so that their
zombie brain can understand it. This is
a great example of an email focused on
one specific thing, not five different
things, which allows the customer to
easily comprehend. It's all about
enhancing the benefits of caffeine. Hey,
did you know that our product with
research enhances the speed and accuracy
of cognitive tasks? Boom. Look at how
simple this is and how easy it is for
the customer to understand this. Instead
of spamming with 10 different takeaways
about the product, I can leave this
understanding that, okay, this product
is going to make my caffeine perform
better, which is super simple. And then
lastly, we have engaging. Boring emails
just don't always convert. And in the
long run, we need to have engaging
emails because if we have boring emails,
customers are going to unsubscribe. So,
we want to use education, we want to
have humor, we want to have punchy
phrasing, emotional triggers, or helpful
info as well. Email should be giving the
customer a hint of dopamine. This email
does an amazing job of being fun, but
also educational, giving stuff that the
customer can learn from and giving them
facts that they can use in conversation
at like a coffee shop with a friend. And
this will directly increase our
engagement. It says, don't just buy
invest in yours. And then it
breaks down, you will spend 92 days or
2200 hours of your life on the toilet.
Want to make that time feel smoother. I
love this. It's fun. It's edgy. And it
taught me something which I love. And it
makes you to really like value, you
know, your toilet time. So, those are
the three principles for email copy that
we want to follow. And one point I
really want to hit home, which is make
or break for email design and
conversions, is we need to be using
infographics because people do not want
to read blocks of copy. Your copy just
won't be read if you're using blocks of
copy in 2025 and 2026. Instead, we need
to be implementing tons of infographics
to help increase our engagement. So,
here are a ton of examples of
infographics. We have things like
checklists right here, which are
literally just separating the benefits
of your product into just checklists. We
have icon graphics. So, separate your
benefits with little icons to help like
visually appeal to people, have them be
able to skim through and kind of like
understand. Then we have things like
feature diagrams where we're calling out
the different features or parts of our
product. Right here, we have timelines
for showing timelines of like using your
product or what you might experience. We
have numbered lists, very similar to
checklist, but listing out numbers.
Right here, which is super easy to just
skim and understand. We have comparison
charts to showing like us versus them or
this product versus this product. Super
easy for the customer to understand. Uh
we have tables. So stuff like this where
we can show different tables and stuff
like this. This is one of my favorite. I
absolutely love this graphic. We have
flowcharts which are a little bit more
fun. But you can see this right here.
It's engaging for the customer. We love
doing that. And of course whenever we
can use graphs or if you have
statistics, that's a sort of infographic
that we love using. Avoid all blocks of
copy and make use of these infographics
as much as you can. Now we can use AI to
help us write copy as well in the email
marketing brain which I showed you
before. This is how our copy process
works. But essentially we can use this
chat GBT which I've trained on how to
write effective copy and it's going to
ask you similar sort of questions and
then the output you can see here what
this looks like that we could give to
designers. You can see this is like what
a feastables email for Mr. Beast may
look like and what it's going to do.
This GPT is going to give you three
different variations. So you can see the
headline. No junk, just chocolate. You
won't find fillers, fake flavors, or
weird chemicals here. Awesome body copy.
You care about what goes into your body
and so do we. Our chug is made with
organic cacao um and minimal
ingredients. No corn syrup. Amazing
educational copy right here. Nice and
simple. This is short and concise. And
then visual right here. You can see the
bridge, the different visuals. You can
do a clean side-by-side infographic
comparing festivals versus traditional
candy, highlighting the no corn syrup,
low sugar, organic cacao, uh, artificial
junk, or loaded with fillers. And then a
product section just with a quick
checklist of the product information.
And then there are a couple different
variations that you can use and pick
what sections you like. So, that's how
we save time with writing copy is making
sure we have a well-trained AI that
knows how to create high-converting
copy. And then we like to write and map
this out for our designers. Now, we
notice a lot of disconnect between copy
and designers when we just kind of write
copy in table format like this. Instead,
our copywriters act as email architects
and are mapping out exactly how the
email should look like to avoid any
confusion. This gives copy more control
over the finished product as well as
giving the designer direction so that
they can avoid a little bit of designer
block. Our final product became
noticeably better when we started doing
stuff like this. You can see you can put
in images to give the designer
direction. You can literally see how the
email looks with like all of the
dimensions and everything when you lay
things out like this. So, I highly
recommend that you write the copy like
this to give your designer some
direction. So, that's like on the copy
side and the main things that we want to
focus on the copy side. Now, let's talk
about email design that drives clicks.
Now, pretty doesn't always equal profit
because the goal of every single email
is to get the click. You can have a
super pretty email, but it might not get
any clicks because you're not following
these conversion rate optimization tips
which I'm sharing with you. Here's the
checklist on how to design emails that
hand the customer a click on a silver
platter. Number one, we want a button
above the fold, which means a button
that is viewable right when the customer
opens the email without needing to
scroll. Most users are not going to
scroll, so put a CTA button in the hero
section so every reader can see it
immediately. You can see button right
here at the top. This is the biggest
issue that I see with most brands is
they have a button, their first button
is way down here. No, it needs to be
visible right off the bat. That right
there will immediately improve your
clicks. And then number two on the
button side as well is large thumb
friendly buttons. We need to think
mobile first. Buttons should be at least
on a screen 1.5 to two inches wide so
they're easy to tap. Look at how big
these buttons are. Look at how massive
this one is. Even a blind person could
click this button. That's what we want.
Every single test that I've done, the
bigger the button, the higher the
conversions. And then we want to have
clear repeating CTAs. We don't just want
to place one button at the end. We can
repeat CTAs two to three times through
the email. So you can see CTA right
here, then here, then here. This is
perfect. And then also we have a button
up here. And then we have this one right
here. And then we finish right here. The
more buttons we can put in the email to
catch the customer at wherever their
decision might be, the higher chance we
have of getting a click. And then we
want to center our buttons in most
cases. Especially in our hero sections
more often, we want to make sure that we
have buttons centered or at least
touching the center. Typically, I don't
like to do buttons all the time off to
the side, but it can be okay here and
there. But definitely in our hero
section and any of our general CTAs, we
want it to be centered, which you can
see right here, which is a great
example. Make them centered. it's easier
for the customer to click so they don't
have to stretch their thumb. Five, we
need to make sure we have a button for
every single product that we're showing
in our email. Each one should have a
shop now button because if you just show
images of product with no buttons, the
customer doesn't know that they can
click that image to then go shop that
item. We need to tell them specifically,
hey, here's the product. You can click
this and buy it right now. That's what
we want. You can see here each product
individual buttons. Then right here,
each category, the individual buttons.
That's what we want to get people to
click on the product they want. And then
number six, end with a general CTA. If
we're showing different products, we
need to end with a general CTA of shop
all or browse more or something like
that. Because, for example, if a
customer views this email, they go
through these products and they're like,
"Oh, I don't really love any of these
products." But maybe they're in a buying
mood and they're open to browsing. So,
we always want to finish with shop all
because if we they got to the bottom
here and they didn't find a product that
they like. It's going to be much more
effort for them to click this, go to
that page, and then go to like general
all products on the site. We need to
make it super easy to just shop all and
take them to a general landing page. And
you can see that with all of these right
here. And then make CTA stand out. So
make sure you use high contrast colors
and simple backgrounds because your
buttons should be the most obvious thing
in the email. Blue background with like
a orange button right here. This is how
we get these to pop and make them stand
out. These are the best practices that
we want with every email. So make sure
as you're designing emails or as you're
reviewing emails that are designed,
you're going through this checklist. And
so how do we design emails? We like to
design emails inside of Figma. It's the
best platform for email design. Has way
more capabilities, organization, and
scalability compared to platforms like
Canva. You will likely need to hire a
professional to help put these designs
together unless you have a design
background. But if you want to see me
actually design emails in real time,
these are two videos on my YouTube
channel which goes over the whole
process. I want to keep this video as
short as possible, but there's a video
on watching me writing and design uh
emails for Mr. Beast and then also for
Gym Shark right here, designing three
emails. These are insights and stuff
that you won't find elsewhere. And I
talk about the whole process from
writing the coffee to designing the
emails. So I recommend you check those
out if you want to learn more about
design. And then also utilizing our
textbased emails. We need to be
utilizing these. They feel personal.
They look like they're coming from a
friend. They're dead simple and have no
distractions. Buttons are clear and easy
to see, and they stand out and cut
through the noise. We talked about this
earlier, but I wanted to have another
reminder because these just work like
crazy. These can be built right inside
your email sending provider with no
design needed. You know what? If you
suck at email design and you just want
to send these textbased emails, you're
more than welcome to. Just be careful
that your engagement will decrease over
time as people aren't getting visually
appealed by these emails at all. But we
want to make sure we're sending at least
two to three of these every single
month. And one thing also to make sure
that we are clear on again is good
artist copy, great artist steel. Steve
Jobs and Pablo Picasso said it so you
can do it as well. You don't need to be
reinventing the wheel. Stick with what
is proven to work from these brands who
invest a lot in their email marketing.
They probably know what they're doing.
So here are some good brands to steal
from. Monkpack, Kiss, Duck Camp, Magic
Mind, Magic Spoon, Lollipop, Dr.
Squatch, Seed, and Breeze. These are
going to give you a good starting place
for getting inspiration on email design.
Again, we have ML, which I went over
earlier. We also have really good emails
which is a website right here which
shows you a ton of really good emails
and so you can steal different
templates. Then also email donut which
again is a ton of email designs and you
can switch by email type. But these are
great for stealing layouts and finding
emails and styles that you like. Now
every brand out there probably has an
email welcome fluff, but most of them
are doing it wrong. They're using
outdated strategies and they're not
using what's actually working right now
in 2025 and 2026. So, in this video, I'm
giving you the exact strategy that I've
used for over 150 7 to9 figure
e-commerce brands and that has generated
over $20 million in sales. So, let's get
into it. So, really what I'm trying to
do here is create an acquisition moat.
Something that is going to differentiate
you from the competition and allow you
to spend more on your ads while knowing
that you're going to be retaining a lot
more profit. So, this is exactly what we
are going over. So, why is this
important right now? So, e-commerce has
changed and most brands just haven't
kept up with everything that's changed
over the past few years in ecom postco.
But it's a completely different
landscape. Ad costs right now are higher
than ever. Customers are getting harder
and harder to convert and there are
thousands of new competitors launching
every single week. With customers being
harder to convert because they have less
money due to inflation, not having
stimulus checks like in 2020, you're
spending a lot more to get people to
your website, but they're not buying and
they're bouncing. And so, if you don't
have a system for capturing, nurturing,
and converting that attention that you
just paid for immediately, you are
burning cash. The customers are just
going to leave and never come back.
Probably go with a competitor. The
brands that are going to win in 2026 do
not just have great products. They have
great systems that build trust fast to
get people to convert right when they
show attention or click on one of your
ads. This all starts with your email
popup and your email welcome flow. If
you dial that in and create that
profitable funnel that predictably gets
website viewers to convert within 7
days, then you're going to have a
profitable machine that you can just
spend more ads on. So that is what we're
talking about. My name is Max, founder
of WellCopy. We've done over $100
million in e-commerce sales. So the
state of 2026 e-com I want to go in a
little bit more depth because what has
changed over time we need to understand
kind of the landscape and what's
different. So we have tariffs increasing
with like US and China which is going to
be eating into our ecom margins. We have
inflation which is eating the disposable
income for the customer. AI is just
making it so so easy to copy products
and copy stores. Someone can type in
your website and have AI recreate it.
They can change the branding a little
bit and they've just copied your store
because there are over 1,000 new Shopify
stores every single day which is crazy.
So this is like the timeline of kind of
like what happened and also why your
product alone isn't enough anymore. So
2020 ecom was really easy. Stimulus
checks and easy sales. People just had
cash and it was easy to just throw up
some ads and people would buy. And then
following 2021 iOS 14 hits. 2022
Facebook rorowaz tanks. We saw a lot of
brands fall off after this bull rush in
2020 and 2021 and only the brands with
strong retention survived. In 2024 we
saw a lot of brands whose cost per
acquisition tripled which really made
your lifetime value your lifeline. paid
ads up 300% from prior levels. The only
brands that could survive were ones that
knew they were going to make a lot more
money on the back end. And then in 2026,
what we have is the product is just not
enough. You need to have a brand. That
is your only mode. Copycats cannot
replicate your brand and your story. The
brands with the deep loyalty are the
ones that are going to be able to
survive. That is what we really want to
focus on. We have the cost per
acquisition problem. With all these
brands showing up, there is so much more
competition. Everybody's fighting for
the same ad spots, increasing the
auction, making ads cost a lot more. So,
we're paying a lot more on ads, but at
the same time, conversion rates are down
as customers are just visiting your
website to check things out and then
leaving to check out one of your
competitors. So, even when they click
your expensive ad, they're not
converting. Now, we have the CAC
problem. And how can we fix this? This
wasn't necessary before, but it is 100%
necessary if you are an ecom brand
spending money on ads right now because
you can't lower the ad costs. That's out
of our control. What we can do is make
every single click that we get worth
more. And that is with a dialed popup
form which is going to turn your paid
traffic into owned traffic so that you
don't have to send expensive ads
anymore. You can send them emails for a
fraction of a penny. And this powerful
welcome flow is going to turn the
website viewers who are just curious
into actual conversions because email is
the cheapest, highest leverage way to
stretch your ad dollars. Instead of
paying $50 to maybe get a sale on your
ads, you can pay $50, still get those
people who are going to buy anyways, but
you can get more people to get their
email, build trust, and convert them now
or down the line without having to pay
again on getting them back through ads.
That is how you beat your rising cost
per acquisition. If you own the
attention, you can nurture the trust and
capture the sale. So, if you don't nail
this, what's going to happen is you are
going to miss your trust window. So,
right when a customer clicks on one of
your ads or customer goes to your
website for the first time, that is the
warmest they are ever going to be. If
you just let them go to the website and
then leave and you don't have anything
to show for it, you don't have an email
or or phone number to get them back.
They're just going to leave and never
come back and you lose that and you
abandon everything and all future
purchases are lost forever. Instead, we
need this pop-up and welcome flow. So,
we can have kind of like this without
where you go $50 ad spend, you get some
clicks, people bounce, you don't have
that email, that person's lost. At least
with a pop-up and welcome flow that's
dialed, you get $50 with your ad spend,
you get clicks and even if they don't
buy, at least you get the email captured
and then you can send them your dialed
welcome series, which we're going to go
over in this video. And then you can
either get that sale today or you can
also get it later because you have their
email and you can send them emails for
fractions of pennies, decreasing your
cost per acquisition and then increasing
your LTV. Same ad spend but completely
different outcome just by having the
system dialed. So this is how we are
going to create our moat and increase
our sales with our acquisition funnel.
Your product alone is not enough. You
need more systems. You need to find ways
to stand out from the thousands of
others in your niche. And the way you
stand out is with your content, your
story, and more importantly, how you
deliver that because your frame is
everything. If you come in with a slap
together generic approach, that's how
you're going to be perceived. Just like
everybody else and the copycats who are
out there copying your store, you only
get one chance to make a first
impression and create that frame in the
customer's mind. Your email welcome flow
and what you're putting in there is your
chance to nail that first impression. If
you're not dialed in, you're going to
lose them. If you are dialed in, then
you've created a moat that the other
brands can't replicate. We can see here
for this brand as they increased their
ad spend. What we have is the welcome
flow right here. They ramped up their ad
spend, their ad traffic. We have a
pop-up form that's converting 15% of
their website visitors into email
subscribers. They were getting $56,000
on this month right here. You can see
that is extra revenue off of their
acquisition funnel. This is how it's
done. And you can have email systems
that generate 38% of your total revenue
just from the email channel. So now
let's actually get into the winning
welcome flow strategy. How do you create
this moat? and how do you make sure that
people buy? Important to note, however,
your welcome flow isn't going to
generate any money if nobody's going
into your welcome flow. So, you really
need an absolutely dialed email pop-up
form. This is why you see top brands
testing new pop-up forms every single
week. Cuz if you can increase your form
by even 2%, that means more people into
the email list that you can convert.
This video is about the email welcome
flow. This YouTube video of mine right
here, smart e-commerce brands are doing
this in 2025, goes over everything that
you need to do to create high-converting
pop-up forms that are going to get as
many email addresses from your website
traffic as possible so that we can then
run them into this system and winning
welcome flow strategy that I'm going to
show you. So, make sure you check that
out because that's very, very important.
So, the winning welcome flow strategy,
there are a few non-negotiables that we
need in our email welcome flow. Every
welcome flow should be a little bit
different. You can't just copy someone
else's. needs to be a little bit
different and it's going to depend on
your brand, your selling points, and how
you want to be different from your
competitors. But there are a few high
leverage things that we need to make
sure our welcome flow includes. First
off, we need to turn off double opt-in
in our email list. What this means is
when somebody signs up to your email
list, if you have double opt-in on, it's
going to send an email being like, "Hey,
click this link to confirm your
subscription." You get a ton of fall-off
right there from potential subscribers.
So, we want to turn that off. And so
with your list inside of Clavio, if
that's where it's at, you just want to
go here, click onto your list, you want
to go to settings, and then you want to
go to consent, and then you want to turn
off double opt-in right here and just
make it single opt-in. So right when the
person enters their email address,
they're going to be sent your first
welcome email. Super super important
that you have that. The next on top of
that, that first email needs to fire
immediately upon the person signing up.
There should not be any time delay. Send
it immediately. When a person signs up,
they're only going to wait maybe 30
seconds to get that first email to get
their discount code or to learn about
the brand. that has to send immediately.
And then that single email is not
enough. We need to have at least three
emails. People need time to convert.
They need multiple touch points. They
need more education to buy. So, we need
to have at least three emails. I prefer
kind of like around the 5 to six email
mark. We want to make sure our emails
are 1 to two days apart as well. We only
have the customer's attention for so
long before they might go to a
competitor. We need to make sure we're
hitting them every single day with
reminders of who we are cuz again, this
is the warmest they're ever going to be.
And also in these emails, we need a
reminder of the welcome discount every
single time. A big mistake is I see a
lot of brands sending educational
story-based emails, which are great.
They just look like every single other
email. And the customer needs to be
reminded of the discount, which is going
to remind them of the urgency because
the discount can only last so long.
Also, non-negotiable that I always like
to include is a textbased email. These
are going to be personal emails that
look like they're coming from a friend.
In 2025 and 2026, when there are so many
corporations and brands out there,
people are dying for that personal
connection. We want to give them that
personal feel. With these textbased
emails, these convert like crazy. And
I'll walk you through some examples. And
then of course we want to have a last
chance discount email. We need to have
urgency on the discount. Give somebody a
last chance or they're just going to
keep putting it off and then they're not
going to buy. So always have a last
chance email as well. So this is
everything that we need to be doing. And
no matter the welcome flow, if you have
all of these in place, I'm not going to
be upset. These are set. You're good. So
now let's go into actually creating our
strategy. Because like I said, every
single one is going to be different
because every brand is different. Some
welcome flows, we're cool with three to
four emails in there. Others we should
be at six to eight. We just need to look
at the brand and think of what the
customer may be thinking and what do we
need to get them over the edge. If
you're an impulse purchase sort of
product, kind of like a gimmick that's
like $20, then you probably don't need
many emails. You just need to drill them
with a bunch of direct response. If
you're a $2,000 like gaming chair, for
example, this is a big decision for the
customer and you probably need to
educate them a ton on your product. So,
you might need to go with the longer
welcome flow. So, we need to ask what is
important to the customer? What are
their objections? And is buying our
product that impulse purchase or a
decision that takes time to decide? And
we need to play into that. So, make sure
as you're building out this strategy
with the guidelines that I'm giving you
that you are considering these things.
So, this is the welcome flow template
and the winning strategy that I like to
push people towards. Email one, we want
it to be the same every single time
pretty much for every brand in terms of
layout. We just want to welcome them to
the brand and deliver our incentive.
Super super simple. Just some brand
background. You don't need to go too
crazy here, but I'll give you the
template cuz there are a couple things
that we need to make sure we have in
this email. And then what we want to do
is we want to do one to five filler
emails, which I'm going to give you a
ton of different options for. And these
filler emails are all about brand
education. So, it's just relevant
information, overcoming objections,
giving social proof, getting people to
trust the brand while also reminding of
the discount every single time in one of
them being like, "Hey, we know you're
new. Use this discount." Then after
those filler emails, we want to go with
our last chance discount email to get
some urgency on the product. Heavy
urgency. Let somebody know that their
discount is disappearing. And then I
always like to end this as well with a
textbased support email. Something that
looks like it's coming from a friend.
Reach out from the founder of the
support team. Offer support. Hey, I
noticed you signed up, but you didn't
use your welcome discount. We're here to
answer any questions. Reply to this
email if you have any questions. By the
way, I extended your discount code for
24 more hours. Something like this
absolutely crushes and it gives us that
personal feel which we love. Now, let's
go into actually like these emails step
by step. Starting off with welcome email
number one. So, welcome email number
one. The purpose and the content is we
need to deliver a strong intro on our
brand in the briefest way possible while
giving them what they want. I see a lot
of brands going way too overboard with
this with these massive emails when in
reality people just want their discount
code and maybe just like a brief intro
on the brand. We'll do the education
later. Let's just give them their
discount. So maybe just give a quick
summary before they continue shopping.
So we want the design to be as simple,
clean, and easy to follow as possible.
We have to understand that the modern
customer is a zombie. They're doom
scrolling. Their attention spans are
fried. So we need to make sure our
emails play into that. The goal is to
simply get people to click and browse
onto the site. As far as the email
template, we want a hero section with a
discount code, a button, and then maybe
a brief intro. This is a perfect example
right here where we can see welcome to
the fam, a brief intro, place to
connect, learn, and explore conscious
cannabis without judgment. So a brief
intro right there. and then the discount
code right up at the top and then a
button right up at the top of the email
so the customer doesn't need to scroll.
We can see in all these examples there's
a button way up here right when the
customer opens their email they can
click that's super super important. Make
sure you have this button up at the top
and you have the discount. If you had
the button and but the discount was way
up here some people are going to be like
where's my discount code and they're
going to leave. So make sure you have
this in place. Then we want a bridge
section with a brand summary. So
something like this, this and this are
going to be perfect. And in this case
they just did icons. This is a gift that
like rolls through. If you want to be
super brief, then of course you can do
that. And then we want a product section
listing some of the products or some of
the categories. So you can see some
customer favorites right here. You can
see some categories right here. And you
can see some categories right here. This
is perfect. This is the winning welcome
flow email number one. Just make sure
you nail this hero section. Make sure
it's branded. And don't get too carried
away with the bridge section. You can
see right here because everyone deserves
a seat at the table. This is a great
example because it calls out the ideal
customer right here within the body.
says they're targeting women, people of
color, and the LGBTQ plus community,
which they call that out in a super
simple way, which is going to be great
for connecting with the customer. This
is how you nail your welcome email
number one. Now, you can build these
emails right inside of Claio or whatever
platform you have, or you can design
them on a design tool such as Figma,
which I recommend. And then once you
design it, then you slice the email into
image sections and upload those into
Claio. If you want to know how to do
that, I have other videos on my channel
breaking down email design and how to
create your emails. So, that is our
welcome email number one. Now, let's
talk about our filler emails, aka our
educational emails. So, what are they?
The filler emails are one to five
educational emails sent between your
welcome and then your last chance
emails. Cuz people need education and
more than a couple of reminders to buy.
We want to stay top of mind as they may
be checking out competitors over the
next week or two. So, we want to include
these because we want to build trust.
Most customers aren't buying
immediately. These emails will bridge
the gap. We need to overcome objections,
answer the unspoken questions that might
stop people from converting. We want to
position our brand differently and show
what makes us different, how our product
works, and why it might be worth the
price. Then, even if somebody doesn't
buy right now, we want to prime our
future purchases by laying all the
groundwork so that they trust our brand,
and then maybe when Black Friday or
Cyber Monday comes around, they already
trust us and then they're more likely to
buy. That's why we want our filler
emails. So, we have a ton of examples.
I'm going to go through a few of my
favorites, but these are like some
examples. We can do things like one
benefit features. So, pick one benefit
about your product and just make a whole
email talking about that one thing
rather than overwhelming with a ton of
different benefits. We have one feature
very similar. We have the FAQ. So just
answer a quick FAQ from the customer.
You can also do multiple FAQs if you
want. Do what's inside. If you have some
sort of like welcome pack or if your
product that has ingredients, create an
email like what's inside our product.
Why do we include these ingredients or
pieces? How it's made. If you have a
cool process or behind the scenes
process with how your products are made,
do that. How to use your product. That
could be an objection where people are
like, I don't think I'm going to be able
to use this product. That could be
helpful. You can also include a back in
stock email, which actually works
really, really well. Trending
testimonials for social proof. us versus
them, how you compare to competitors,
myths versus facts, a little bit of
education, research studies, before
versus after of customers using your
products, notes from the founder, all
sorts of different stuff that you can
use here. Again, it's going to be
different for every brand. All of these
work. Just trust your judgment on what
you think is the most effective. To go
into a couple of kind of like my
favorites that I like to include in
welcome flows. One of them is the our
story email, which typically all follow
up after the first email with an our
story email. We want to build trust by
making the brand feel human. People want
to buy from people. They don't want to
buy from faceless corporations.
Introduce the founder, the brand's
origin story, and a deeper mission
behind what you do that people can rally
behind. After that first initial email,
and after somebody might have clicked on
an ad, mostly they haven't bought
because they don't know really like if
you're real and if they stand with you.
So, we want to combat that with why
behind the brand. Put a face to the name
and remind them of this discount. As far
as the email template, we want to have a
hero section with a founder photo and
some sort of a warm quote or intro
headline. Bridge section, have like the
founding story or brand mission of some
sort. always remind of the discount in
some in one of your CTAs. And then
product section, you can have some
subtle category links, but really we
don't want to be too pushy with this
email. We just want to give them the
story and a lot of people will naturally
buy. Something like best sellers or
founders picks is something that works
well. So, we can see a couple of great
examples here. If we look at this one
right here, I know this is kind of hard
to see, but this is a brand a legacy
built from the ground up. We can see the
different founders right here and then
the story behind it and then some images
from back in the day of like what the
warehouse was like and all sorts of cool
stuff. Really heartfelt. It gets you to
trust the brand and really want to
support them. And then there's a cool
section on why choose us, which helps
the customer kind of like see things
clearly. Then of course reminding of the
discount. And then there's shop by
category buttons in the footer. Then
also a call out on the discount code up
at the top. Here's another example right
here which looks like an email or some
sort of letter to the customers which is
super cool take on this email. Hi, I'm
Terry Roberts founder. Of course, put an
image right here so that we can put a
face to the name and then a story
outlining the struggle. She struggled
with hair and how it was thinning. So
she created these products that do this
sign from the customer and then again
outlining everything right here and then
outlining the free offer for acquisition
and then right here the story behind us
as well. Founder image branded summary
right here and then reminded the
discount. These are perfect. That's the
our story email. Next I want to talk
about the frequently asked question or
frequently asked questions. These are
going to help. Most customers aren't
going to email you and ask questions.
It's just too much work. So we need to
address these objections upfront. So
answering frequently asked questions
directly address these builds our trust
and creates a clear path for the
customer to purchase. It also shows you
a transparent brand who also knows what
the customer is caring about. So as an
email template hero section that answers
the FAQ itself for the hero question
just saying the FAQ itself and saying it
directly. We just want to have a bridge
section explaining it. Then a product
section tying in your brand and how your
product addresses that FAQ. We can see
right here we have a textbased email
which I am totally fine any of these
emails do a textbased email. These just
absolutely crush it. So we can see how
simple this textbased email is. It's not
too long. And you can see right off the
bat, the most common question I get is,
"What does Breeze taste like?" Just
quickly answer the question, remind the
discount code, make it personal from
Corbin from Breeze. And that's perfect.
Here we have a graphic one of, "Is safe
teeth whitening possible?" answering the
question right here. And then having
some further education all throughout
this email and then tying in our product
at the end and how we overcome this
objection, which is perfect. The only
thing that's missing here and also with
this one is the welcome discount. These
are actually campaigns that were sent to
the email list, but these could easily
be adapted to put in the welcome flow
just by putting the welcome discount.
This is one right here where it's your
guide to enjoying happiest hour. And we
have a couple of FAQs down here, which
is perfect and summarizes everything
super clearly for the customer. This
one's a little bit different. This one
is going to be the most stereotypical
FAQ sort of email that you can do. This
is going to be the textbased like little
founder touch. Highly recommend you test
these out. So, moving on to the next one
is a how it works. This is going to be
purely educational, especially if your
product is a little bit more
complicated. One of these is going to be
completely necessary for your welcome
flow. So, we just want to educate on how
our product works. We want to reduce
confusion, build our trust, and make
them feel confident taking the next
step. So, just lay it out in plain
English and visually show the ease of
use of your product or the
transformation. So, for the hero
section, ask the question, how does it
really work? Or you can do a how-to and
then just bridge section, explain it in
a few short sentences. In a product
section, tie in your brand. So we can
see for this skinincare brand they start
off with a transformation from a
customer which is great and then they
answer the how does it work in the
bridge section which is completely fine
as well. The customer can see exactly
how it works and then they can trust the
science and also something cool is
showing different testimonials right
here and of course reminding of the
discount. Here's another one for
leggings and there's a step-by-step
how-to right here so the customer can
see exactly how it works and kind of the
magic behind it. And then here's just
straight up addressing the question. How
does this work? again have some
infographics of where our product fits
in and then tie in our product right
here. Add some social proof. Boom. You
have a perfect how it works email.
Another one I want to talk about is
what's inside. And this is going to be
perfect for CPG brands, skincare brands,
supplement or bundle based brands. Show
your audience exactly what they're
getting. Ingredients, materials, or
items in the bundle. Just have
transparency and people are going to
trust you more. So, as a template, if
you don't know where to start, have a
headline saying what's exactly inside.
Bridge section, just explain exactly why
it matters. Then product section, of
course, tie in your product. So we can
see right here, this is a product which
is a THC infused social tonic. And so
they start off the hero section just
talking about the benefit. And then in
the bridge section, they're answering
what's inside. So they put exactly
what's inside, what are the different
ingredients and how does it work. And
then we have Athletic Greens right here
where they do the same thing where
they're showing exactly what's in our
products in a cool info product. We
provide the essential nutrients and this
is what's in our products compared to
like other products. Perfect. Right
here. And then this for a chocolate bar
brand. Three ingredients. Pure bliss.
So, just break down the only three
ingredients that are in our product.
Breaking down every single ingredient,
everything that's inside our product.
Perfect. What's inside? And then we
always want to mix in some social proof.
You should always have at least one
social proof filler email inside your
welcome flow. We need to reinforce trust
by showing the proof from real customers
or celebrities pretty much just to show
that we're legit. This is going to
validate a lot of our claims and push
subscribers closer to their conversion.
Don't get too carried away. I'm not a
fan of doing this many reviews because a
lot of times that can overwhelm the
customer and they don't read any of the
reviews. Typically, I like to do only
like one to two to maybe three
testimonials in a full email. And then
just be straight up with like, hey, here
are the testimonials. So, you can see
right here, this is more of a celebrity
testimonial email. The hero section is
just focused on how we're different. And
then we can see the real stories right
here. We have Cristiano Ronaldo, another
health influencer right here, as well as
right here. and then more social proof
down at the bottom talking about like
the proof that our products work. This
is like the simplest sort of testimonial
email that you can do. Put a testimonial
up at the top with a button and then
feature a couple other testimonials and
then have a call to action. And then
right here, this is one where we're just
flashing a ton of different testimonials
at the customer and then give them a
simple product section right down here
at the bottom. Make sure you take time
actually finding your testimonials. They
need to overcome objections within them.
Take time to find your good testimonials
cuz they're going to do the selling for
you. Next, we have sort of like a how
we're different email or how we're
separate from our competitors or like us
versus them. We want to set our brand
apart by clearly stating how we're
different. Because the elephant in the
room is your customers are comparing you
to all sorts of other brands and your
competitors. So, we just want to lay
things out clearly for them so that they
can make their pick. Just have a hero
section with what makes us different.
Maybe summarize it really quick and have
a button, explain your core
differentiators, whether that's your
materials, your values, your results,
your process or customer experience. And
then have a simple product section as
well. So, this one is why does ice
cartel shine harder than other jewelry
brands? and just giving three reasons
right here. Super clean and simple.
Reminded the welcome discount. We don't
want to give 10 different reasons
because that's going to overwhelm the
customer. Just pick a few of the main
differentiators. This is like a clean us
versus them. Just quick check marks
right here so it's easy for customers to
see like why would you go with our meal
delivery versus others. And then some
quick social proof and remind the
discount. Then another one right here,
how we're different. Just a quick
summary up here at the top with a punchy
headline. And then it outlines how these
products are different than like other
carriers in an us versus them section.
Very similar to the one right here.
These are super effective for showing
how you compare. And then if you have a
lot of products or the customer might be
overwhelmed with what to pick, a
bestseller email may be a good choice.
This could be single product or could be
multiple products. But the purpose is to
just make it as simple as possible for
the customer to make their choice so
that they don't have decision fatigue.
You could start off with like our best
sellers or you could say directly like,
hey, if you can't decide, start here. A
lot of people when they're first coming
into our brand, they get overwhelmed.
They don't know what to get. So we
always recommend that you get this
first. It is the fan favorite yada yada
yada. Just make it super easy for them.
Bridget explaining why this product is
so good and then just feature the
product. So here's like a single product
feature right here. So say this was your
best seller for supplement brand and
include an email like this just breaking
down that one product. What makes it
different and a little bit of social
proof. Perfect. Then right here for a
brand like this, what products do our
customers love? Feature the two bests
sellers and exactly why people like it
and you've helped make that choice for
the customer. And then we have this one
right here for like a clothing brand
where if you have a lot of different
products then you probably want to show
a few different products and then you
can link people to the bestseller
section. So right here, just posting the
testimonials of these different products
and then bestseller button at the bottom
so that person can buy the bests
sellers. You're all set. So those are
the filler emails. You can use any one
of those or in the big list that I
showed you up above earlier in the deck.
But now let's talk about the last chance
email. This is going to be how we get
people to buy on the spot with a ton of
urgency. So for this email, so by the
end of the flow, you should have trust
built up with all the education that you
sent. And people just kind of need a
nudge to buy. So what we need to do is
we need to drive urgency before that
discount expires or product sells out.
It's your final push to convert these
customers who are on the fence. Look at
these examples. We don't want to
overwhelm or do all this crazy stuff. We
want the email to just be focused on the
urgency. You really don't need a bridge
section. Just have a hero section with
last chance to use your discount, then a
product section. Tie into your brand,
list out some products maybe, and you're
all good to go. So, we can see right
here, you can see all the buttons are in
the hero sections of these email. So,
the customer doesn't need a scroll. You
see right here, there's going to be a
countdown timer for this brand right
here. This is it, your last warning. So,
urgency before it's buried for eternity.
Then feature some products, a little bit
more urgency. Boom. Then this branch is
super duper simple. Last chance for 10%
off. Buy now. I love this. And a lot of
times these convert the best. Then we
have another, this is going to be a
countdown right here. Just reminding of
the discount. Literally no supporting
copy. Just that. That's perfect. And if
you want to go with a textbased
approach, this works really, really
well. Hey Max, June here. Quick
reminder, your welcome discount expires
tonight. Remind of the brand story. Make
the discount code super clear and then
shop now. Perfect. So that's that last
chance email that we want to make sure
that we do. And I always like to end off
as well with a textbased support email.
So something that's going to bring them
a little bit closer to the brand and
trust us and get them to reach out if
there is a big concern. So we're
combining the customer support tone with
urgency to drive action. We don't want
to make it seem too pushy. We want it to
be like we're genuinely helping them out
and we don't need their sale. Just a
friendly nudge, not a sales push. So be
sure to offer support and mention your
support team. All you want to do is
reminded the brand and its mission.
Mention the discount code and that it's
still active for use. Then include a
blur about the support team. So, this is
a great example right here. Hey there, I
hope my previous emails have given you a
taste of Pedal Commander's commitment to
quality. We've got your back and stand
by that with a 30-day complete money
back guarantee if you aren't satisfied
with your order. So, you can see right
there, that's also reducing risk for the
customer. And then mentioning subtly,
hey, I noticed you haven't placed your
order yet. No worries if you've been
busy. I get it. In case it was a
mistake, I extended your discount code
just for you for the next 24 hours. So,
we have a lot of urgency just built in
with that, but we're not being like,
"Buy our stuff. Buy our stuff. Last
chance." Super subtle. Reminded the
discount code again. and then boom, shop
now. Then also PS, if you have any
questions, our support team is always
ready to assist you. Just reply to this
email and we'll respond ASAP. Make sure
you're pushing those people to that.
This is the sort of stuff that you
aren't going to get learning from other
people. This is stuff that I've tested
that just works super super well. So
that is the full strategy that you need
to do. Now I want to talk about some AB
tests and optimization because this is
really what's going to make the
difference in the long run because
nothing is perfect on the first go,
which is why you always, always, always
need to be testing. So these are some
high leverage AB tests that I really
recommend that you run for the welcome
flow. You could test a million in one
different things, but I suggest starting
with these ones first is going to be the
biggest impact, which is going to be the
welcome offer. For example, doing $10
off versus 10% off. A lot of times, a
different offer can be the difference in
literally double the revenue. So, we
want to test that easiest just because
it's high leverage. It's super simple to
change, but it can have a big impact on
your results are your subject lines and
your preview texts. Next is your time
delays in between emails. Maybe you need
to be less pushy. So, you can do 1 days
versus two days. You can also do what
products are featured in emails. So,
featuring different bestsellers in your
emails. what are the ones that customers
are buying typically first? You can test
that out doing those text based emails
that I showed you versus like doing more
graphic based emails. You can test
different variations of those. And then
also something else that not a lot of
people test is linking to specific
products or linking to collections. So
in your product sections actually
linking to a direct product like this
product right here is our bestseller.
Buy this. Here's another bestseller. Buy
this one. Or you can do categories like
shop hoodies, shop t-shirts, shop socks,
and link people to categories. Some
people like to browse a little bit more
with that and other people like to be
given the best sellers and the
individual products just straight up.
But the easiest way to optimize your
welcome flow over time is by adding
successful campaigns into your welcome
flow and then just adding your discount
code. So you should be sending three to
four email campaigns per week to your
e-commerce list. These campaigns should
be mostly non-promotional. We don't just
want to be spamming discounts. So we
want to be testing out different
educational angles in our campaigns and
then monitor our results. If we have a
campaign that absolutely crushes it, say
we're a supplement brand and we do a
frequently asked question email of how
long does it take to see results with
this product and it absolutely crushes
gets a ton of revenue and a ton of
engagement, then we know that that email
is validated and it's probably very
helpful for people. So, what we could do
is just add the discount code within
that email and plug it into our welcome
flow. That's literally it. Just add that
sentence of copy. You can add that to
your flow or you can like replace the
lowest performing email in that welcome
flow. So, this is my favorite and it
avoids a lot of the AB tests and having
to monitor results that comes when
actually doing the AB tests. Should do a
little bit of both, though. You are
leaking thousands of dollars every
single month if you do not have these
four automated abandonment email flows
live. These are the site abandoned,
browse abandoned, cart abandoned, and
checkout abandoned email flows. To just
map this out for you, a recent study
showed that seven out of 10 of
e-commerce carts are abandoned. And
Carter is just one of the four
abandonment types that we're going to be
going over in this video in creating
systems for recovery. I'm going to break
down the exact strategies and email
templates that are working today,
exactly how to set up these flows, and
the best AB test that you should run to
optimize these over time. Step zero is
getting your email sending provider set
up and making sure that you have these
metrics firing. Hopefully, you have an
email sending provider already and
hopefully it's Claio. That's what I'm
going to be going over in this video,
but this will apply for any email
sending provider, specifically for
e-commerce brands. I'm going to assume
you already have a platform and we're
just going to go over metrics and making
sure these metrics are properly firing.
The first one that we need is active
onsite. That's the lowest in the funnel
and this is for anybody who goes to your
website. So the second I load up Nike's
website right here and I have a Clavio
profile that's going to fire the active
on-site trigger. And you can check to
see if you have this in Claio just by
heading over to metrics and then the
trigger that we want is active on site
right here. If you click on it, you can
see if it is being tracked. If it's not,
then you have some issues. But right
here we can see we have around like 200
or so people who are firing this every
single day. So we're all good to go
there. That's going to be the trigger
for the side abandoned flow. The next in
the funnel is going to be viewed
product. So right now I haven't clicked
on anything, but the second I actually
look at a product page and I click right
here, this is going to fire the viewed
product trigger. You want to make sure
you have this by just looking up viewed
product right here. And if you click on,
we can see that this is being tracked.
So we're all good. This is going to fire
the browse abandoned flow. if I were to
look at this product and then close out
of the website right now. Next up, and
what 80% of brands I audit don't have is
added to cart. So, what fires added to
cart is if I actually click this right
here, this add to bag button. And then
right here, this is in my cart. And
that's what's going to fire this trigger
right here. You can see there are two
here. They're a little bit different.
This is through Clavio and this one is
through Shopify. You can see this one
isn't working. If you don't see this
added to cart Shopify trigger loaded up,
then just disable your Clavio Shopify
integration. then reenable it and it
should show up. And right here we can
see what this is tracking. Again, 80% of
the brands I audit don't have a flow for
added to cart. They only have it for the
next one in the funnel, which is
checkout started. Most brands have a
checkout abandoned flow, which is going
to fire if I go to my cart and then
actually click checkout. So, if I click
checkout right here, we're taken into
the checkout page. We can just go guest
checkout. And right here is what fires
the checkout started trigger, which if
we look up, let me make sure I spell it
correctly. That's going to be this one
right here. And most brands just have a
flow for checkout started, but they
don't have it for added to cart. So, we
want to make sure that we're doing both
because checkout started is farther down
the funnel, but we want to make sure
we're tracking. If any of these triggers
aren't working for you, just look up a
Claio support article and it should help
you out. If not, you can reach out to
their support team. You don't need to be
a technical genius. Trust me, you can
also book a call with me in the
description if you're an e-commerce
brand and I'll help you out. So, now
that we have setup, let's actually talk
about the email flows. The email flows
one and two that we're going to talk
about, which are the most important, are
abandoned cart and abandoned checkout.
especially make sure you have card
abandoned properly set up. I keep saying
it because it is such a big problem. Not
a lot of brands have card abandoned set
up. It's a huge opportunity to recover
revenue. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go over the strategy and the
sequence of emails that we like to send
and have found to be optimal for our
over 100 different e-commerce partners
we work with right now. So, to get the
most bang for our buck, we're going to
be sending four emails for each of them.
We don't just want to send one or two
emails. We want to make sure we have
multiple follow-ups cuz people forget.
Or maybe they don't get their paycheck
until Friday and they're waiting to buy
something. or maybe they're going to
different customer websites, adding a
few items to cart, and waiting to make a
decision. Either way, the more
reminders, the better. So, right here, I
have two simple diagrams just of a mock
abandoned cart and abandoned checkout
flow strategy just to save time cuz I
know you're probably busy. You can have
the same flows for abandoned cart and
abandoned checkout. They can be the same
content, but different triggers.
Obviously, we want them to be different,
but to keep things simple, we can have
them be the same. And so, what we see
here, we're just going to wait 30
minutes to fire that first email. We
don't want to wait too long. We want to
get that impulse purchase to have email
one where we just do a simple reminder.
We have a dynamic Clavio block to show
exactly what the person left behind and
then give some brief product
information. That's all you need. You
don't need to go too crazy. And then
we're going to follow up with daily
emails. You could change these to kind
of two days, but I found that people
need daily reminders and it's just what
converts better. Email two, we like to
do a textbased personal reminder. So,
we've tried to hit them with just
showing the product. Now, we need kind
of an emotional appeal and then a little
bit of a social proof appeal. I found
that a founder personally reaching out
to get somebody to buy is way more
impactful and not a lot of people do
this. This strategy that I found is
starting to get a lot of popularity. And
then email three and four is where we
have discounts. We're opening up a
discount. Try to get somebody over the
edge to purchase. They are so close to
buying. They just need a little ump. A
lot of people will do discounts right
off the bat, but I don't like to do
that. I like to try to get the sale by
saving margins first and then if we
can't get them with a couple reminders,
then we'll try to get the discount. So
again, just a simple email with a
discount opener, dynamic claio block,
and then plug in some social proof or
frequently asked questions. Then we're
going to follow it up again with a
textbased last chance having a lot of
urgency in offering some support as
well. This is most bang for your buck.
I've tested this on 8 figure brand,
seven figure brands, and this is the
winning strategy for 2025. Here we have
just a different way to look at that
graphic with a couple different
examples. For email one, again, you can
see how simple this is. Just a simple
reminder, almost there, one click away.
show the dynamic item that the person
left behind or the different items. We
have a button up here and then some
brief product information on the bottom.
What's so good about our chocolate bars?
If this person added to cart, they
already have a base understanding.
That's why we're not going too much in
depth. Just kind of reminding them about
what we stand for. And then email two,
this textbased reminder, you can see,
hey, I hope you are well and keeping in
good health. This coming from a team
member on the team just works so well
and it looks like it's a friend reaching
out to you, which is why it works so
well. You can see a simple button right
here removing all friction for the
buyer. Then mixing in some social proof
about how we're verified by 40 patents,
we have 26 research studies, yada yada
yada. And then again, giving off that
warm feel. This prints, so try this out
if you don't already. And then email
three, this is where we're going to do
the discount. We're just going to keep
it really simple. Hey, here's your
discount. Here's the discount code.
Claim your exclusive deal. You can see
the button high up in the email so the
customer doesn't need a scroll, which
then leads us to the Clavio dynamic
block. And then putting in some social
proof and risk reversals right here. And
then answering some frequently asked
questions. This frequently asked
question block goes a long ways. So, I
highly recommend you do that. And then
email four, just a textbased sort of
last chance on the discount. Make it
personal. Offer support if you want to
make it important. Put it in the PS
section because everybody reads a PS
section. But again, you can see how
simple all these emails here are. Don't
need to over complicate this. People are
so close to buying, they just need a
little nudge. So, let's actually build
this inside of Clavia. So, what I like
to do when I'm building these
abandonment flows, since we're going to
have dynamic content, I like to start
with Clavio templates. So, let's do the
cart abandoned flow first. I'm going to
search for the correct flow here. We
actually want it to be the Shopify added
to cart trigger, that newer one right
here. This is the template that we want
to do. Click onto this. It's going to
give us just this quick little template.
Let's go in and start building the flow.
We can see right here it has our trigger
all set up. It even has these filters.
So, if somebody goes to checkout or they
place an order or they've been in the
flow in the last 7 days, they're not
going to receive this flow. So, these
are the correct filters that we want.
And what they did here is wait 4 hours.
I'm going to change that as we went
over. We want this to be 30 minutes. And
I'm going to delete the SMS just for
this video. So, we have abandoned cart
email one. And then we have this one
right here. Time delay. We're going to
change this to 1 day. So, boom. Here's
email one. We have the subject line,
forgetting something, then preview text
right here. You don't need to overthink
your subject lines and preview text.
Just do what you think makes sense and
then you can test from there. So, we can
do forgetting something and then preview
text like you're one click away. And I
find that dot dot dot works really well
for getting opens. So to edit the email,
we just want to go into template right
here. And what we really are looking for
is this dynamic Clavio block. This is
why we use this Clavio template because
it's already going to load up with the
correct sort of variables that you need
to dynamically load in what that person
left behind. And you can still go in and
edit the size of this however you want
it to look. Edit the fonts. Essentially,
what this is doing is it's going to show
the person's product on the left and
then the information on the right. So,
if you want to keep things simple, you
can edit text right inside of Clavio,
like forgetting something,
you can drag in an image to put your
logo up at the top here. We have this,
we have a Claio button, and it has the
dynamic link, which will take somebody
to the cart, which is perfect. Now, if
you wanted to be more advanced, you can
upload images, designing your emails
inside of Figma right here. So you can
see here like this example for aloe. If
I wanted to remove this and then just
have a section up at the top of our
email that just says forgetting
something,
I could do something like this. Use this
slice tool to slice this email.
Export this image just like this.
Exported. Go back here. Upload this
image.
And then boom, right here we have this
section. We could get rid of this if we
wanted. Get rid of this copy and just
have this dynamic section. And then we
could go in, grab images of like the
rest, whatever we wanted to do in this
email. If we look at this other example
like we had before, we would upload the
image of this, this, and then this in
the footer. So get creative, mess
around, use some stuff in Clavio and
also mix in some stuff in Figma if you
want. And then for the textbased emails,
we wait one day here. So all that we
want to do if we want to make this email
textbased like we have for our second
email here just like this. We go into
Clavio. What we want to do is change
template right here. And then we just go
right here and then we change change
template. And then we want text only
just like this. And if we click on then
this is going to load just this plain
text. And you can put in your copy right
here. I'm going to have a video in the
description with all the links that you
need to have a shop button where you say
shop now.
And if you want a link to the actually
to the actual dynamic cart of this
person, which in this case is going to
be this. And then it'll dynamically take
the person to their cart. Again, it'll
be in the description for you. And then
for the rest of the flow, we can just
duplicate our time delays and add in the
third emails, third and fourth emails,
and create them just like we did these
others, but create our discount code
inside of Shopify and just insert that
into the copy of our emails. It's that
simple. So, that's the abandoned cart
flow. Let's talk about the checkout
abandoned flow. Now, again, we're going
to go off of a template. Clavio confuses
everybody with the cart versus checkout
abandoned. The checkout abandon is
actually this one right here. Abandoned
cart reminder and standard. I know it's
kind of confusing, but this is actually
checkout abandoned. If you click in, you
can see the trigger is checkout started,
which is what we want for abandoned
checkout. So, I'm going to label this as
abandoned checkout. And if we click on
then inside it looks the exact same as
that cart abandoned one, but we can see
the trigger is actually checkout
started. And then the filter will just
stop people from those who place order
from receiving this flow or have been in
this in the past 7 days. This is
perfect. So again, right here, we'd want
to change this to a 30 minute delay.
Get rid of the SMS and then edit the
emails just like we did for abandoned
cart. Again, edit it the same way.
What's super key to know though is that
the dynamic content for abandoned
checkout and abandoned cart are
different. So that's why we use these
Clavio templates. It'll automatically
come in with the correct dynamic
content. And you can actually see by
going to preview and test if the dynamic
content is loading and what exactly it
looks like for users. And if any of that
isn't working, reach out to Claio
support. They'll give you the correct
ones. So just copy the emails that you
did for abandoned cart right here.
Follow this flow and you are all set.
Those are the two most important ones.
The cart abandon and the checkout
abandon. Now let's talk about the browse
abandon flow. Again, as a reminder, this
for anybody who views a product but they
don't purchase. They just get up and
leave. Here's the flow strategy right
here. It's very similar to cart and
checkout abandon. Almost the exact same,
but focusing a little bit more on why
the person came. If you look at email
one, we're actually waiting 1 hour this
time. I found that to be the optimal
time. Give some people some time to
check out other things and then remind
them of the first item they checked out
1 hour later. Dynamic Clavio block. Give
some social proof and instead of carton
checkout abandon where we're just
showing that product, we want to show
other products cuz maybe a person didn't
find exactly what they wanted. We then
follow that up one day later answering
FAQs and having a simple reminder and
then we enter with the discount and then
that textbased personal reminder also
educating on the brand. So if you look
at these examples you can see them here.
Did something catch your eye? So
changing the copy to be along the lines
of hey you viewed this product do you
want it? And then mixing in different
social proof but mostly mixing in other
products. So you can see right here
these different products just in case
somebody wants to shop for something
else. We then follow that up with just a
simple reminder being like hey take
another look. And then giving some more
brand information and FAQs that might
get somebody further down the funnel.
Follow that up with that discount.
Adjusting the copy about still thinking
about it. Here's this discount. Show the
dynamic section. And then also show
other products cuz now this person has a
discount. Maybe they still want to shop
other products. So let's show that to
them. And then following it up again
with that text base, just personal.
Really hit home on being personal.
Educate on the brand a bit and give that
discount. Perfect execution right here.
So inside of Claio, let's do the same
thing where we create a flow. And you
can see right here, browse abandoned. If
you want to look it up, just look up
browse abandon right here. You can just
use the standard one, browse
abandonment. You can see the trigger is
this little gear, viewed product. Use
this template. And once we go inside, we
can see viewed product. And they already
have the profile filters here. But we
actually also need to add the added to
cart. So we want to make sure that
anybody who adds to cart isn't receiving
this flow. So we want to change this to
cart right here and make it added to
cart zero times. and we're going to say
in the last 24 hours just to be safe.
Just like that, we're going to change
this time delay then to 1 hour. And just
like we did for card abandoned checkout
abandon, we're going to upload and put
in our browse abandon emails. So if we
go in and edit, you can see again since
this is a Clavio template, it already
has this dynamic section loaded in. We
can see the copy right here. Everything
that you need is right here. You can go
off these templates that I've given you,
but you just go in and you can see we
also have a product section right here.
So, Claio has an awesome feature where
you can insert products right here. Drag
this in and you could do whatever you
want. You could do dynamic and just show
best sellers like right here and it'll
choose some of your best sellers to show
the customer or you could do static and
pick out what exact products you want.
And that's what we're going to be doing
in a couple of these emails and browse
abandoned. So, you need to know how to
do that. And if we just go in and
preview, then we can see our products
and the recommended items here. Now,
this isn't optimized at all. These are
optimized emails. If you want to learn
how to do email design, I have other
videos on my channel. But just having
these emails in place are what are going
to be the main revenue drivers for you.
So, just like before, we can just drag
and drop our different time delays
and just build out our different emails.
And this is going to recover sales from
people who look at items, don't add to
cart or checkout, and then leave. The
last flow we want to talk about is the
website abandoned flow. Anybody who goes
to your website, but they don't view any
products, they don't add any items to
cart, and they don't go to checkout.
Here's the simple strategy that we do.
Just two emails is perfect. We want to
wait 4 hours because these people are a
lot lower intent. We want to see if
waiting a little bit can get them to
actually find a product that they want
or maybe their day has calmed down and
they're open to start scrolling. So, we
wait 4 hours. All we want to do is
encourage browsing, show off some of our
products, and offer support. We just
want to get these people onto the
website. And then day later, you can see
kind of a theme here with the personal
reminders. Doing a textbased email,
educate a little bit on our brand
uniqueness and try to point the customer
in the right direction. Cuz the goal of
this is just to get them back on the
website to browsing. So if we look at
these examples right here, email one is
just encourage browsing. You can say,
"We noticed you stopped by. Did you get
a chance to check these out? They're
selling fast." So pushing people to shop
by the different category and then
showing off some of our products right
here so that a person doesn't need to go
to the website to actually view these
products. So you have these and then
offer support just down here. Do you
have any questions or concerns? There's
the link to the help center or also give
your email that people can reach out to.
Perfect execution. Nice and simple. And
then email two just waiting one day
later having a personal reminder.
Address how our brand is unique by
saying like, you know, we have over 200
styles you can choose from and try to
point them in the right direction with
checking out our best sellers or if you
got a new iPhone 16, you can shop these
and just be friendly and try to make it
seem like a friend is reaching out.
That's the strategy. Nice and simple.
So, inside of Clavio, we can create a
flow. And for this flow, we actually
don't have any templates inside of
Clavio. And we don't need to cuz there
isn't any dynamic sections here cuz
nobody checked out a specific product
and we need to show that. We're just
showing general products. So, we can
just go to create flow up here and then
build our own. So, we go to build our
own. We can change this to site abandon
and then create it manually. And right
here for the trigger, just like before,
we want to do the active on site. So,
I'm just going to go off metric right
here. And active on site is right here.
Profile filters. I'll have this in the
doc in the description, but very similar
to the other ones. We want to talk about
somebody has viewed product zero times
cuz then they would get the browse
abandoned flow since starting this flow.
We also want to make sure it's cart
abandoned as well. If anybody adds to
cart, we don't want to have them. And
then also somebody hasn't gone to
checkout
right here since starting this flow. And
then also placed order. Somebody places
an order, we don't want them to receive
this. Placed order
zero times since starting this flow. And
then also we want to do has not been in
this flow. You can do anything from 7 to
30 days. I just like to do 30 days. And
then boom, we're all set there. Confirm
our trigger. And then just like before,
we're going to drag in our time delay
right here to 4 hours. And then we are
going to just drag and drop our emails
and create our emails. Drag this one. do
a time delay right here between the
second email which is going to be text
based. So this is going to be the
textbased one and then this is going to
be the graphic one which you can design
inside of Figma similar to one here or
you can just build for simplicity right
inside of Claio. And that is the site
abandon flow. All right. So those are
the four money-making abandonment flows
that you want to have set up. These are
the quickest, most concise emails that
are going to get you the most bang for
your buck. You can get more advanced and
having like eight to 10 email flows, but
that's really not necessary unless
you're doing millions of dollars a
month. Since we only have so few emails,
we want to make sure that these are
optimized. So, you need to make sure
that you're running AB tests over time
so that you can continue to convert
people who are abandoning your products.
So, these are the five highest levers AB
tests that you should be running. The
first one is the time delay until that
first email. So, for abandoned cart and
checkout, we had a 30 minute time delay
as we went over in that template. But
for some brands, a 4-hour time delay is
better. For others, a 2h hour, for some,
a 10-minute time delay is the best. It
really just depends brand to brand.
Waiting 30 minutes is typically the
best, but it really does vary. And I've
seen it go a wide range. So, to A to B
test the time delay, you have to kind of
do a workound here. So, all that you
want to do is you want to add a
conditional split right here. And what
you can do with this split is do a
random sample. And then we can do a
50/50 random sample. And then we'll have
the 30 minute time delay on this side.
And then we could have, you know, a
2-hour time delay on the other. So, what
I would do is I would clone this, drag
it here, and then change it to 60
minutes. And then we want everything
else to be the same. So, we would
duplicate this over, drag it in, and
then move this stuff over as well. This
20 hours, so I'd change that to just one
day. And then boom, we could just turn
this on. And you just compare the
numbers over time. If you click show
analytics, it'll show you the numbers on
these. You could just look over time
what the 30 minute delay is doing in
terms of revenue right here and what the
one hour is doing. It depends on how
much traffic this flow is getting for
how long you need to run a lot of these
tests. If you're getting millions of
visitors every single day, then probably
a test is only going to need to be run
for one day. But if you're only getting
a couple hundred people a month or a
couple thousand people, it may take some
more time for these tests to actually
get you conclusive results. Go off feel.
If you see one starting to perform
better, then just go with that one and
make that time delay the standard. The
second highest level AB test is your
subject lines and preview texts. This is
up there at number two just because it's
very easy to do and think of different
subject lines and preview text. You
don't need to change any of the content
of your emails. You just got to change
some of the text. You can test subject
lines that are more browsebased where
it's like, "Hey, did you forget
something?" Or you could be more
aggressive where you're like, "Finish
your order today." Or, "You're one click
away." Test doing those more browse
basic things versus more aggressive. You
can test using emojis or not using
emojis. Just test test. It's going to be
different for everybody. The third
highest lever AB test is doing the
graphic based emails which I showed you
versus doing text based emails which I
showed you. Sometimes those personal
based emails absolutely crush it and you
could just have flows with that. And
other times you do need a little bit
more graphics and people need to see
kind of the product in action in order
to convert. Test those against each
other. Four is social proof versus
informational content. Some products
just need more information for people to
buy and others they just want to see how
other people are liking the product.
with a product that's very intricate,
then maybe education on how that product
works is probably a better use of space
in your emails. But for others, if it's
pretty simple and they just want to know
if the product works, then maybe just
showing those testimonials is the better
way to go. Just test it out, see what
works. And then five, the next highest
lever is adding more emails. Usually,
when you add more emails, you make more
money. But you can test that out and
look at some of the numbers. Again, it's
just test test test. When I'm setting up
AB test for one of my 100 clients,
seven, eight figureure e-commerce
brands, these are the ones that I'm
starting out with. So, the first part of
our email creation process is ideation.
What is the idea behind our emails? That
could be a bestseller email. We could do
an email just highlighting an FAQ of
ours. Whatever it is, we want to be
really specific with what our emails
are. You can get a ton of inspiration by
going to chat GPT. Or you can just go
around your website and try to think of
some ideas. So, if I go to Calvin
Klein's website here, I have a ton of
different ideas that I could create.
Father's Day is coming up. So, we could
create a Father's Day email highlighting
different Father's Day gifts. Do a thank
you email just towards dads. Could do a
whole email about 50% off sitewide.
Could do a underwear highlight. And then
specifically about underwear, we could
highlight our ingredients. Why do we
choose these ingredients? We could talk
about where we source our ingredients.
Tons of different ideas. Now, I want to
have two different styles of emails for
this video. And so for Fastables, I'm
going to do more of an educational
email. Whereas for Calvin Klein, I want
to do a sales sort of email. And so,
looking at Mil, which is just a free
website, mil.com, where you can spy on
other brands emails and everything that
they're sending. I noticed that they
have this friends and family sale, which
is essentially 40% off sitewide. So,
let's just do an email focusing on this
and highlighting this offer so that we
can create a high-converting email when
we do sales. So, I put in the relevant
notes here for the brief for this email
so that we can write the copy. Friends
and family sale 40% off the whole store,
but you get an extra 20% off if you buy
in store. So, pushing people to actually
go to the physical locations. So, they
have a new collection of logo pieces
that we want to highlight in this email.
And then just to give some people some
outfit inspiration. We're going to be
like, "Okay, pair those logo pieces with
denim." And then boom, that's an email
brief. Now, let's go to the idea behind
festivals. So, there's lots of different
stuff here. We can do birthday cake
batter new product right here. And look,
we get the we get the popup. Looks like
there's something peanut butter. I'm a
big fan of peanut butter, so I kind of
want to do something peanut butter
related. Look at that. That looks This
is some good imagery that we could use
in the email. And then being able to
design with like the peanut butter.
Let's do something that's highlighting
their peanut butter uh product right
here. So, we could do a peanut butter
highlight. Let me do a little bit of
extra research on this. So, this is
actually an older flavor, but really
what works well psychologically in
people is if you make things seem new.
And so, if we could do some sort of like
restock or some sort of relaunch sort of
vibe for this peanut butter chocolate
bar, that should perform really well.
Even if you don't have a ton of new
products coming out, you can use this
little psychology and do product
highlights and make it kind of seem like
this is a new thing coming out. because
a lot of people might not know that he
has peanut butter chocolate bars, which
I didn't know. So, we're going to do a
product highlight here. But another
thing that people really aren't aware of
with this chocolate company is their
ethical sourcing. I saw this page on
their website on their ethical sourcing
and how they're actually giving back and
they're trying to take down big
chocolate companies who take advantage
of small communities, specifically
communities in Africa. So, this is
something that we really want to promote
in our email. So, let's do a product
highlight of the peanut butter chocolate
while also talking about our fair trade
and commitment to ethical sources. We
give people something really
irresistible with the chocolate and then
we back it up with social proof and
giving people a reason to feel happy
about their purchase. And so, here's the
brief peanut butter chocolate feature.
We're going to have a sustainability
section taken from this section and they
have a lot of solid designs and imagery.
So, we want to carry these over and add
email sections and make these higher
converting. Then, I've just linked to
the product here so that we can have it.
So, there is our ideation. Now, let's
get into actually writing the copy. So,
this is how I like to write copy. I like
to actually visualize what my email is
going to look like by its different
sections. So, I entered this into a
Google doc and split things up into the
different sections. Most good emails are
going to follow this layout where you
have a hero section, which is going to
be kind of like where the customer
doesn't need to scroll. It's right at
the top of the email. We'll have a
bridge section and then a product
section and then finally the footer at
the bottom. That's how most emails will
look, but not all of them. I just like
to start out here so I can really
visualize my email. And always, always,
always what I'm doing is I'm going to a
website like Mil or like really good
emails.com or emaildonut.com and
stealing inspiration and emails that I
like from these brands, but I can piece
together my own unique email. And so
pretty much for every sort of email
layout, we're going to have a headline
and then some body copy and then a
button at the top of the email. We like
this sort of layout. We like this sort
of layout. We like this. I would like
this if there was a button up here. We
like this. We don't like this cuz
there's no button. If there was a button
up here, that'd be good. But
essentially, this is what we want to do.
Something I really like here that I
think I just got inspiration from for
Calvin Klein is having two buttons in
the hero section. So, this brand right
here, they're doing get fourpack, get
the six-pack. Now, what we can do for
Calvin Klein, since we have men and
women, is at the top of our email, we
can have a shop woman and a shop men
button. And I think this is the most
used hero section layout. And it's
probably the safest thing that we can
do. Maybe once we get to designing, we
can have a little bit more fun. But, I'm
probably just going to go with a
headline focused on the discount offer,
making that as clear as possible. Maybe
have a little bit of body copy and then
have shop men and then shop woman right
here. And then we can have a graphic of
some sort in the top section. Usually
for clothing brands, you really need to
show the product. And so I'm probably
going to do a photo gallery. So I'm just
going to put a photo gallery section
right here. And then we'll see what we
want to do once we get to designing.
Since this is a sale email, you don't
always need a bridge. You kind of just
want people to just go and shop shop
right now. So, I think I'm going to get
rid of the bridge section and just go
straight to the product section. So, we
have 40% off. We want to promote the
logo pieces. So, how about we have this
whole hero section be about the logo
pieces. And then the product section,
let's highlight the denim products and
say like pair with these different
products. So, it's been about 10 minutes
since I last did this. But essentially,
I'm trying to get inspiration for this
product section. I found this brand
Snake. I just looked up like fashion and
looked up the niche and kind of found
this brand and I was like, "Okay, I like
some of these parts." And so, we want a
product section to be super simple. So,
I'm thinking something like this by
woman and men, splitting different
sections, showing both women and men's
products. And then, I like how this is
shown. I thought this was cool. You have
the lady like going over top the frame.
So, I want to do something like this for
men and women. We'll just replace like
this with this little box to give it
some more life. And we'll do that for
all of them. And so this is how I had
this section kind of like lay out and
then we can add the copy after this. So
if you're working with a designer, you
can prompt them with something like
this. But essentially, I said women's
denim, show the products like this, and
then we're going to have two products
for women product image. We're going to
have the name, then we're going to have
price before, slash it out, and then
show the 40% off price. I found this is
super effective for sales. Do the same
on this side, and then a shop woman's
button, and then men's denim here.
Forgot to have the headline. We're going
to do pair with denim at the top. And
then we'll have the men's denim. add
this button, shop men's, and then boom.
And then we'll have the footer. And then
actually for one last little piece, what
I'm going to do is add one more section
just prompting people again to say,
"Hey, if you want an extra 20% off, you
can go and store." So, I'm just going to
put that in here for now, and then we'll
come back as we write the copy. So, now
we need a headline, body copy, and then
we're pretty much good to go here. We
just need to put in our product
information, and then a section on
spending in store. So, what I'm going to
do is now I'm going to call in chat GPT
to help me out. This is a free custom
GPT that you can have access to.
actually made this with over 500 docs of
email marketing trainings and tons of
back and forth and development over the
past 6 months and you can have it for
free if you click this button. Then it's
going to prompt you to like be like,
"Okay, what exactly are you looking for?
I have a question about email marketing.
Write me an email marketing campaign,
which is what we're going to do here.
Give me email campaign ideas." So, you
could use this to replace that first
step that we had. Create an email
campaign calendar and then create me a
graphic to use my email. We're just
going to have us write an email
marketing campaign. So, I'm going to
type B. And then here, it's spitting
out, okay, what's the website of the
brand? Give me two to three sentences.
describing and the products and all the
stuff so I can create those. Okay, so I
just filled this out answering these
quick questions and we should be good to
go. Then if we don't like kind of the
copy that it spits out, then we can add
in some more information about like our
tone of voice. So I'm just going to send
this in and then we should get quite a
few options with different like
headlines and sections we can use. All
right, so we can see it spitting out
tons of different variations for us to
use here. You can see it has body copy,
bridge section, and then the product
section here. Really all I care about is
the headline, sub headline, body copy.
Everything else we kind of mapped out.
You can see though that it spit out a
couple good uh bridge sections here as
well with like step one, step two, step
three, infographic of like new of like a
styling. So bold look breakdown,
breakdown different products. So pretty
cool ideas here. So I think in this case
I'm not going to do a sub headline. So I
think I might just do I might just take
this sub headline just super simple 40%
off everything was extra 20% off in
store. So, I just went ahead and plugged
that in. Now, let's get the body copy.
Now, I think we could do a little bit
more. We could have a little bit more
words here in the body copy. Give me
more body copy variations and make the
body copy slightly longer. So, let's see
what we can get right here. All right.
So, we got some different options right
here. Let's see what I want. Okay. I
kind of like this. I just like the
straightforward right in the copy. So,
I'm going to copy this. And then I don't
love this part as much, so I might steal
from like another one. Actually, now
that I'm looking at this, this is kind
of repetitive. So, I'm going to get rid
of that. Then, we just have our most
loved logo TE's. Okay, so after going
back and forth for a little bit, I've
kind of like boiled things down to these
after talking with Chat GPT, and I think
I like this one the best. Start with a
bold logo tea. Layer on a denim jacket.
Add your favorite jeans. Clean cuts to
iconic Vic. Now's the time to restock
the styles you wear on repeat. Banger.
So, this is what it's like to go back
and forth with chat GPT. And I'm
probably going to get rid of this. I
think that this is nice, clean, and
straightforward. Let's just add a line
about getting an extra 20% off in store.
Boom. Shop online or head in store to
unlock an extra 20% off. This looks
pretty good to me. We'll have a photo
gallery. Oh, and then we need this
bottom section right here. How I think
about these bottom sections is treat it
like a mini email if we're just going to
have a little blurb at the bottom. So
just a headline bonus savings in store
as a friends and family bonus. Take an
extra 20% off when you shop in person.
Same styles, even better deal. Just walk
in and show up. And so I kind of just
asked Chat GBT to help me come up with a
quick section on this and then I took
some of these ideas, read some of this,
kind of just like word smith together
this right here. So not too shabby. I
think this is all good to design. Now
let's go to the Fastables email. We have
a peanut butter chocolate feature. We'll
have a sustainability section and then
use some of their designs but kind of
just add things and make them
emailified. So, same situation. We are
going to add these different sections
right here. And I think I'm literally
just going to have chat GPT like do this
all for me or at least help me create
like the whole outline of this email.
So, going back to the email marketing
brain, I'm going to have it write
another email for me. Answer B and then
it's going to ask the questions. So I'm
literally just having chatgpt help me
answer these questions to then give back
to chat GPT. So what is the email about?
What you can do is you can give chat GPT
all of the links. So I said peanut
butter chocolate feature email and then
linked it to the page and then add
sustainability section for the bridge
from this. So let's just give chatbt
this and see what we can come up with.
You can see some pretty cool subject
line ideas. This bar will ruin all
chocolate for you. Warning, addictively
creamy inside. And then some good
preview text right here. And so you can
see it analyzed the website and kind of
got the tone of voice right here. Lots
of good stuff. So headline, peanut
butter, chocolate, goatated. This bar
slaps. So that's very much in his voice.
Mr. Beast's favorite snack right now.
Clean eats never tasted this filthy
good. Nothing artificial. All the
flavor. You've had chocolate. You've had
peanut butter, but never like this.
Okay, that's kind of a banger. I think
I'm going to use that. Organic
plant-based and melt inyou mouth magic.
This is your upgrade. Okay, I like this.
Let's go on ahead and get to work on the
actually writing this copy. So, for this
email, I want to make sure that we have
the headline. We don't need to have a
sub headline if we don't want to. We're
just going to go straight to a shop now
button. And then I'm just going to go
with our typical layout. They have
really good visual. So, I want to have a
cool visual of the chocolate bar. Cool
visual of chocolate bar right here,
which we can probably take from
something. Yeah, like this is perfect.
We'll use this and make it look super
cool. And so, for the headline, what do
we want to do? So, for the headline, I
want to make sure it mentions peanut
butter. And this is the only one that
mentions it. Give me more headline
options that have peanut butter in it.
Let's see what we can get here that
maybe we can steal. Okay, so going at
these. I kind of like cuz he always says
that slaps. So, I think we can do
something like peanut butter that slaps.
If we had the and it's clean, we could
do that. But I think we might run out of
words here. So, I'm going to do peanut
butter that slaps. And then for body
copy, we had this little blurb up here,
which we like. You've had chocolate,
you've had peanut butter, but never like
this. I like how educational this is,
but I also like this. So, I'm going to
take this as well. Do we think that that
could fit in? This isn't your average
gas station candy. And then we'll take
in this blurb that I liked right here.
And this should be pretty good to go, I
think, after we word smith this all in.
You've had chocolate, you've had peanut
butter, but never like this. This isn't
your average gas station candy. Rich
creamy peanut butter meets organic milk
chocolate in a combo that hits every
time. No GMOs, no palm oil, just real
deal deliciousness. Perfect. Love that.
Now we need to add our bridge section.
So we just have text here in this bridge
section. I probably want some sort of
graphic. Maybe I kind of just like this
right here. I'm just going to say give
me more options for bridge section as
infographics. So we can get some
different things right here. This is
talking about a lot of the ingredients
inside from farm to feast sustainability
timeline. This is a pretty cool idea.
These different sections right here,
metrics. So different metrics we could
do. Fastables impact stats. So I'm going
rogue here cuz kind of what I want to do
is I want to leverage us against big
chocolate. So I want to say I want to
create like an us versus them feel with
our brand cuz that's why it was created.
So, what I would do here is add
something like taking down big chocolate
with ethical sourcing. I think that's a
really good sub headline. And then let's
talk about okay, what is ethical
sourcing? So, I'd probably say something
like summarize ethical sourcing for
feastables in bullet points. And then
we'll have just like a little bulletoint
infographic of what this means for us.
Rainforest Alliance certified cacao,
transparency and sourcing, no palm oils,
regenerative agriculture goals,
sustainabilitydriven packaging. Okay,
give more quick ones. Fair pay for
farmers. Okay, we got a lot more here.
I'm just going to pick out five of
these. So, this is what we've ended up
with and we should be all good to go.
Actually, we always want to end with a
general CTA. So, I'm just going to add
something super simple. I think this
bridge section will take up a little bit
of space. We're going to have a lot of
heavy visuals at the top. So, I'm just
going to add a section here like shop
below to get yours. And then something
fun, we could say like uh your taste
buds will thank you. And then shop
peanut butter bar. We'll just have this
final quick call to action. And then we
will have our footer and we are all good
to design. Peanut butter. That slaps.
You've had chocolate. You've had peanut
butter, but never like this. This is
your gas station candy. Rich creamy duh.
Bridge section. And then a final little
call to action. And then our footer.
Banger. And now we have the Calvin Klein
up at the top. Nice and simple. Straight
to the discount. Typically for clothing
brands, we need a little bit less words
and more showing the product. So this is
okay. Right here we have less copy, just
straight to the products and showing the
value of the sale. That's always what we
want in sales is show the value. And
then right here for just highlighting a
product that make it kind of seem new.
Peanut butter that slaps. You've had
chocolate. It kind of seems like this is
new coming out. So it can hit on that
sort of novelty factor that
psychologically humans love. We're going
to have a button way up high in the
email. Perfect. We're going to have a
cool visual with the chocolate bar.
We're going to have a bridge section,
which if you're doing non-disount
emails, we need to make sure we have
good education and kind of like
different ways that we can
psychologically get the customer to buy,
such as doing like us versus them, like
why support big chocolate. We're taking
them down. This is what ethical sourcing
means for us. And final little call to
action in footer. We are all good to
design here. All righty. So, we have the
copy all completed for both of these.
Now, let's actually get to the
designing. I'm going to start with the
um Fastables one. We just did it fresh
on my mind and I have a lot of ideas so
I want to do that first. Uh but we are
going to our design tool. This is Figma.
Um I'm going to be walking you through
this. I have also another tutorial on my
channel on email design with Figma. It's
the best tool. Highly recommend using
it. Essentially, you have this big field
and we can do our um all of our edits
and all all the stuff we need to do
right here inside of Figma. So, what
we're going to do is we're going to get
to designing. First thing I like to
always do is we're going to start off
with some sort of se you can do a frame.
You could start off with a rectangle,
whatever you want. We can have this
right here. I like to make my emails 600
uh pixels wide. And then now we can kind
of like map out our email with
everything that we want. So I just put
in kind of the copy right here and what
the email is going to look like just so
we have it for reference. So I'm
actually just going to insert a frame
here. Name this the Feastables email.
So, looking at their website here,
there's a lot of things that we could
do. I think for the background, I want
to go for like this little like lines,
these like flashing lines right here. I
think that's what I'm going to go for
for the background of this email. So,
we're going to need to find this blue.
We're going to need to find like how to
use these like line things. I'll go see
what kind of patterns that I can find.
And exactly, I want the background to be
just like this right here, this
background. And so, what we can do is
you can go to free pick. This is the
tool that I use for any like sort of
backgrounds. And right here, we already
have a ton of stuff that we can use. We
can literally just copy any one of
these. And so I found this. I've
imported this into the document. And
kind of all we need to do is drag this
in here. And then boom. So we have this.
I'm going to leave this here for now.
But it is a little bit too light. We
want it to be just like a darker blue.
Kind of like this. So what we can do is
we can find color right here. And then I
just like to go to something like
colorfinder. We're gonna insert this
image here. And then find here. Take the
hex. Go back into Figma. Take a
rectangle. Make it that color. And then
let's put this right over here. And then
I'm going to send this to the back. We
have this. And then what I'm going to do
is I'm going to see if I can turn the
opacity down so we can see the
background design a little bit more. And
then boom. This should be pretty good.
Something just like this. So, let's move
forward with this. So, now we have the
main sort of like background figured
out. Let's paste in this logo. Center it
right in the middle right here. Make
sure we go all the way to the edge right
here. And then boom. Let us put in our
copy. So, I just put in a text box. Went
in like this. I can center you right
here. And then I found the font. We're
just going to be using Canet. However
you pronounce this. Every brand's going
to be a different font, but this is what
we're going to do here. Going to want to
make this a lot bigger. kind of what I'm
thinking of is having something like
this headline where peanut butter isn't
big and then under it it says that
slaps. So that's what I'm going to go
with here. A lot of emails in good
graphic design, they different sizes,
different dimensions of different parts
just to give it some more depth. So kind
of what I'm thinking here is if we make
this all caps right here and we make
this one super thick just like that.
Pause. And then we put in whatever color
we want. We can go to like an orange
color right here so that it's the color
of peanut butter. So, this looks good
right here. Peanut butter. And actually,
I kind of want this to be bigger. Could
make this even bigger if we did
something like 75. I'm going to separate
this text out just so I can come back to
it. You know what? I actually just went
to their website and I found this. It
says peanut butter and it looks just
like a plain product or plain image
right here. So, what if I just literally
use this? Okay, this is perfect. Let's
put this in. And oh, perfect. Oh, this
is way better than I could have done. I
want to make this smaller, but I want to
make sure that I don't mess up any of
the dimensions. So, I'm just going to do
this. And then we can do just like that.
Move this a little bit under. Let's
change this to be capital letters as
well. And probably make this a little
bit smaller so it's a little bit
cleaner. Maybe a little bit more bold.
And boom. That actually looks pretty
solid. Peanut butter. That slaps. Let's
copy and paste and put in our body copy
right here. Go back here. Copy and paste
our body copy. Put you in here. And this
is obviously way too wide. Going to
adjust this. Just going to mess around
with the sizing a little bit and I will
get back to you guys. All right. So,
this is what we ended with. Went with
size 18. Centered it just like this.
We're all good. We're going to add in
our button right here. And then we're
going to pull in our pictures of the
chocolate. So for a button, we can just
enter a box right here. And for the
color, we can use this tool here to find
this color just to make this match a
little bit. I usually like to make my
buttons pretty big. The bigger the
better because it's easier for the
customer to click. So we want to make
sure these are big. Just copy and
pasting this text and saying shop now.
I'll insert this in. Right click. Bring
this to the front. And then I'm going to
group these two together. And we have
this trick right here called auto
layout. Make this a little smaller. And
then we could center this how we want.
We can also click these two and use this
tool auto layout and then it'll center
it and then make sure that everything is
formatted properly. So looking here, I
want to replicate this button on their
website. So they have corners. Um it's
rounded and they have a black border. So
what we can do here is we can go around
here, add a corner radius. Do something
like five. That should be pretty good.
And then we can add a stroke. If we add
a stroke right here, it'll automatically
add that bold outline around there. So,
maybe let's make this a little bit
thicker. And that seems to be good to
go. Just like that. I'm going to bold
this text and maybe italicize it. Kind
of like how they do it. Boom. That
should be perfect. Look at this. Not too
bad. Now, let's get our chocolate
graphic, which we are just going to take
from here. Perfect. Just dragged it in
here. And this should fit pretty well,
honestly. Make this smaller. Drag this
in just like this. And this is looking
pretty sweet up here. One thing I don't
like is this seems very tall. It's going
to take a while to scroll. So, I'm going
to see if I can cut down on our lines by
spreading this out a little bit. And
that already looks a little bit better.
Let's move this up here. And boom. This
isn't looking too bad at all. And I kind
of want to make this even more 3D. Just
got this off of the internet right here.
Just looked up peanut butter swoosh and
I got this. And I think that this will
add a lot of depth. Maybe if we put this
behind it, make it look even more
explosive. And look at that. That's
looking pretty clean if we add it to
like something like right back here. And
then this is just a different part of
this image that I want to drag in just
to give us a little bit more depth. And
already this is looking pretty pretty
sweet. Let's move this down cuz we have
this going over the text. We want to
make sure that moves behind the text. A
little bit hard to read. So maybe we
want to adjust this a little bit. But
this is looking pretty pretty good. And
I really want to have these little
clouds. I think that this would be super
cool and like little rainbows. So, I'm
going to go see what I can find. Some
things like this. Oh, this would be
perfect. All right, I was able to pull
some of these from their website, and I
think that these are going to be sweet.
Oh, I love this. Add in some clouds
throughout. And this is just going to
add a ton to the email. Oh my goodness,
look at how much more life this just
got. Love this. I think this hero
section is pretty much good to go. Let's
move on and get to our bridge section.
So, we just need to extend this email
down. I need to cut off this these
sections right here. Push them up. Maybe
move it to like right here so we can get
on with the next section. And actually
to help this transition cuz I'm going to
switch the transition from blue
probably. And this will help kind of
like alleviate that. And so we need this
background right here. This grainy
little texture. And so I actually pulled
one from free pick just copied it and
we've pretty much replicated it. So this
is the other background of the email
that I want to use. If we drag it in
right here, I'll send it to the back.
And then perfect. This looks like Mr.
Beast's website. And for this section we
have the taking down Big Chocolate.
We're going to have a list right here.
And so what I want to do is I'm just
going to pull an image. Or actually, you
know what? Let's add the copy in here.
And so I just brought in the copy here.
And then for this top headline, which is
right here, all I did was I made it
bold, added a fill, and then actually
what I did here is I added the same
thing just right here as backgrounds,
but made it black. And then we have this
right here. But I want to have an image
to show that it's real. And so I'm just
going to copy this image right here. So
just copy and pasted this in. Made sure
the copy was right here. And then we are
really good right here. And then we have
the what ethical sourcing means at
feastables. Now for this section of the
bullet points that we are supposed to be
hitting. I just don't like how this
looks. So I'm going to see if I can find
something on mil. I think Monk Pack is
pretty similar to us. Um, so I want to
see if I can find how they have executed
some sort of list. Couldn't find
anything. So I went back to their
website and they have the these FAQ
boxes. So I think I might just copy this
cuz I like how it looks. And so I'm
going to try to do something like that
as well. And so if we I'm just going to
copy and paste put the text right here.
And let me look. So we have a rectangle
and then we have words in the rectangle.
So let's put this rectangle for the
color. We're going to copy this same
color as well. We're going to add
another corner radius because it looks
like they have corner radiuses on this.
And then we have a black outline here.
So, let's add another stroke. Maybe set
it at like four. Maybe make this a
little bigger. I just pulled a frame of
a plus sign right here. And we could
just use this. And then let's put in
this first bullet point and see how this
looks. Boom. Okay, that doesn't look
that bad. Cool. Let's try this out and
see how it looks for everything. All
right, so this is what we came up with.
I did a little bit of advanced
organization here on the left side, but
you can see those rectangles that I put.
Just put in the copy right here. And we
have everything right here in this
section. And this looks pretty good. I
like it. We have it all in one frame. So
I use these as little frames. And so if
you click onto something, you can see
it's a frame right here. And so it's all
grouped together. And then I put a frame
around all these frames. And then what
you can do within these is is you can do
different things like you can change the
uh distance between them with something
like this if we wanted them to be wider.
Uh but I think this looks good. We'll
extend this background a little bit to
right here. And then let's end with our
final uh shop below to get your section.
So I'm just copy and pasting the same
background as before. And then I just
want to move this to the back. And I
think if we end with like a final
section like this to bring it all
together, that should be pretty cool.
Need to bring the same rectangle blue
color. So it's the same. And then we're
just going to copy and paste and put
this shop below to get yours. Your taste
buds will thank you. Copy and paste you.
This looks good, but this is kind of
awkward. So I'm going to put this on a
different line. Your taste buds will
thank you. Going to capitalize this
right here. And then this kind of looks
a bit small, but I'll add that later.
I'm just going to copy and paste this
last call to action and put it here.
What would happen if I made you a little
bit bigger? Okay, I like that. And then
kind of want to spread these out. So
maybe line height. If we increase the
line height, these will spread out.
Perfect. This was a bit of a harsh
transition. So I just found this little
piece, which is also on their website.
So that kind of helps with that. Maybe I
want to move it over so it's separate as
the other. But maybe that's fine right
there. And boom. That looks really good.
Now, let's add in the footer. All right.
So, just doing the finishing touches
here. Let me crop this to where I want.
And boom. Let me show you what I did.
So, to add some extra depth here, I put
this in like the foreground. And it kind
of looks like we still have this design
going spurting out from the call to
action, which is super cool. And
actually, this still looks a little bit
bare. So, let me get a couple of clouds.
I think that that'll make this look a
little bit cooler. There we go. Okay,
now we're looking good. This email is
looking pretty sweet. I'm going to spend
a couple more minutes kind of like
touching things up to be where I want it
to be. All righty. So, here is the final
product. I made it a little bit more
vivid like the colors throughout. I
added these lines right here to separate
the sections just a little bit more. We
have this section and then I did the
same thing here. changed the call to
action to say shop peanut butter bar and
put in the footer right here with just
like buttons and sections right here uh
with the logo and then just what they
had in their footer. And we are looking
pretty saucy. I love how this turned
out. I'd be lying if I said I didn't
consult with one of my designers on hand
to put this together, but this is
amazing. Shout out Diana. Amazing email.
This was the before and then this is how
we turned out. This is just what
reviewing tens of thousands of emails
over the course of a long time can help
you bring to life. All right, so we have
this one. Now, let's go to the Calvin
Klein email, which I think it's going to
be a lot simpler and hopefully a lot
faster. All right, so I kind of put the
layout here. I deleted the images and
then kind of put them back, but this is
what we're working with. Let's get to
designing this email. So, let's put in a
new frame right here. We'll name it
Calvin Klein. Let's set the background
is set as white. Let's set this as 600
width. So, I'm going to start by putting
all the copy in here because there are a
lot of different ways that you could put
together an email. For this one, I'm
going to start with putting all the copy
inside. All right. So, I just put the
copy in with just like some estimates on
like sizing and where it could be. The
fonts that I'm using, I just using guys.
It's the closest thing that I could find
to their website. And so, for this
email, we're probably going to keep it
pretty minimal and have this white
background so it's very familiar to them
in their website. Okay. Then we're going
to use this red color and we're just
going to show a lot of models in their
products. So this is what we're looking
with. We put a photo gallery. So I'm
going to pull in some pictures of the
logo TE's and then we'll try to make
some sort of photo gallery here. I'm
just looking at Aloe here to get some
inspiration maybe on some different
photo galleries. So they do a lot of
like full image here. So they keep it
pretty simple. So I think we'll keep it
pretty simple as well. All right. Right.
So, I got a couple of their logo TE's
that they were highlighting and pushing
a little bit across their different
channels. So, let's see what I can do
here. I might mix things up a little bit
and not have this here and try to have
like a photo gallery kind of in the
middle. These are all kind of like
different sizes, so it's a little bit
awkward. But something I've seen brands
do is if you don't have these overlap
and you have like a little bit of the
background in there, like something like
this, it could look a little better. Let
me play around with moving these around
a little bit. Okay, so here's what I
ended up doing. I tried to make space,
some space for something to fit in. And
I think I like this. We had to crop
these a little bit. But what we can do
here, which I've been seeing a lot of
brands do, is you can actually have move
the logo and everything kind of to the
side a little bit and do something like
this. And we could move this down a
little bit and have it all be in one
line. Move these together. And I kind of
like this. It's like a 3D sort of look
right here. I think that this is pretty
cool. I like it. It's different. You
don't see a lot of brands doing this.
And this is how you can stand out in the
inbox, finding different ways to show
how you're displaying your products. And
of course, mixing things up for the
subscriber. So, I kind of like this.
Let's Let's try it out and see how we
like it and how the email progresses.
But, we do still need to add our buttons
right here. So, all I'm going to do is
again put in a rectangle. Put in a
rectangle. Maybe duplicate it. Maybe I
will frame you two. Use auto layout
right here so that they're hugged
together. Change them to black. Put in
the copy here. Adjust these. And this
looks pretty good. Looks like a decent
top hero section right here. Just nice
and simple, to the point. It kind of
matches their website. Perfect. Now,
let's move in to this next section. So,
what we need to do under pair with
denim, then women's denim is we need to
recreate this for some different product
images. So, let's find a couple of our
products that we want to use. All right.
So, I pulled a few here and I've started
to put in the text with the percent off.
You can just see this is just a line
right here. It's just slightly smaller
and crossed it out. You can see with the
strike through right here. And then I
made the price a little bit bigger and
then red 30% off. And then shop now. I
just did underlined sort of like a bold
shop now right here. And then we have
this product image right here. So now we
have to figure out how in the world are
we going to do this? So there are a
couple ways that we can do this.
Essentially, what we need is we need a
border and we need this girl to go in
front of it. So, actually something that
we can do. So, what I'm going to do here
is we want to separate this girl from
the background. And so, if we go to
plugins right here, icons 8 background
remover, we can remove background.
Select the image and then go to the
icons 8 background remover. Remove
background. And then what this is going
to do is this is going to separate her
from the actual background. So let's let
this run a second and see what it pops
out. All right, perfect. So you can see
it removed the background. This is what
it was before and this is what it is
now. So now if we wanted to, we could do
whatever sort of stuff like this. Have
her cast a shadow, have there be
multiple of her, and the background is
untouched. Now what we need that for is
the background. So, if we put this
picture of her right here, and then we
line it up so it's perfect, and then we
cut the background. I'm holding down
command on my keyboard and go like this,
we can see that in the background she's
getting cut off. But in the foreground,
since we have this piece of her that's
right here, this goes over the top. So,
it gives that cool effect where it's
like almost 3D, which gives it that
really cool look. And then we can add a
border right here. So, if we wanted to
go to this image right here and then add
a border, a stroke just like that, then
boom, we kind of have this effect where
it's goes around her just like this,
exactly in the example that we're going
for. So, now we need to add the other
border right down here. And we need to
add this kind of around this section.
So, all we need to do is add in a
rectangle. Align this up. Make a white
background. Add in the stroke that we
want. And then we'll move this behind
everything right here. And then adjust
right here how we want it. Looks super
thick when they're lined up. So, let's
move this up. And now we are looking
pretty solid. I like it. This is great.
Now, let's recreate this for everybody.
All righty. Here we are. I just finished
updating this. So, you're going to see a
couple things a little bit different
that I changed. I added in all the
remaining products, added in the
buttons, and then women's denim, men's
denim, but you'll see this background. I
actually changed and it's kind of like a
beach sort of vibe right here, which I
think kind of goes well with like the
brown background here. All I did was I
went to free pick here. And then I found
something just like this. I couldn't
find it again. Um, but found something
just like this. And then kind of like
set it as the background. zoomed in a
little bit and you can see the image
right here. There's the girl's
background. And then you can see the
image right here. You can actually see
this was the exact image that I chose
right here for the background and then
just zoomed in on the waves. Put it
inside this frame. Had to mess around
with it a little bit and then boom,
we're all set. Super clean, super
effective. Something to note about this
section is every item needs to have a
shop now button so the customer knows
that they can click and go shop that
item right now. So right there, we are
all set. We're done with this section.
Now, we need to do the bonus savings in
store. So, typically something like
this, we're going to want to do
something kind of like this. But, I'm
going to separate it from the footer
this side this time, just to show you
guys that we can do that. And when we
have something like this, I could just
make it plain. But typically, I like to
kind of put this over top like an image
of some sort. It kind of just stands out
a little bit above just like the plain
footer, which we're going to have. Okay.
So, I just pulled this image, which is
pretty solid. Adjusted the sizing of it
to just be right here. um kind of just
like the the aesthetic of the brand. It
was one of the first things I saw on the
website. What I'm going to do is I'm
gonna put this in. I'm gonna move this
to the back and then put you here. We're
going to have to change the color of
this to white. And so when it's
difficult to see like this, what we can
do is if you go to fill down here, we
click plus. We can add kind of like a
shadow in front of it so it's nice and
dark. We're going to make this dark
enough until we can see our text super
clearly. So, I think that's probably
good right here. Kind of at 60. Let's
just center these. And this looks pretty
good. And now we can add our footer. For
the footer, super straightforward. All
that we did was we just added the logo
right here. And then just added a couple
different boxes right here and add it in
and split by category. We always want to
have shop by category or some sort of
thing in the footer so that the customer
if they get to the bottom of this email
and they kind of don't find the product
that they like, they could scroll to the
bottom and be like, you know what, maybe
I will go shop new arrivals or maybe I
will go shop denim or underwear or
jackets, whatever it is. We want to give
them that option. So, this is looking
good. I don't really have any other
edits. I think this is clean. It's a
little bit different. I actually just
noticed that this isn't really centered.
So, I need to center that. And I am not
a designer by any any means. I'm sure a
lot of the designers out there watching
this are like probably gritting their
teeth because I don't use auto layout or
anything like that too much or any of
the cool like Figma tools. A lot of this
stuff I'm just eyeing it. That's why I
hire designers. Like this right here.
Just noticing that this isn't centered.
So let's shift this. And then that looks
good enough. Maybe if you look at this
through a magnifying glass, you're going
to find some subtle differences, but
we're fine. So looks like we are all
good to go. Let's actually upload these
emails into Clavio so that we can send
them. So, in order to upload this into
our sending platform, all that we're
going to be doing is we're going to use
this slice tool. And essentially what
the slice tool does is anything within
the frame that you slice, you can export
it as like an image. And so that is what
we're going to do. We're going to be
slicing up our emails into small
sections because each individual section
is going to have its own link. Like for
example, this little section right here
needs to have a different link because
it needs to link to the '9s loose fit
jeans. Whereas this section needs to be
the skinny jeans. And you don't want to
have too big of a slice because it's
going to be a big file for the customer.
We want to split things up. And kind of
the biggest size that you'd want, it's
probably around 800 or so in length. And
so instead, what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to split just before these
call to actions. Go just like this. I'm
going to export them. I like to export
on two times. And we're going to save
them as image slices as PGs. And then we
can slice up the rest of the email and
do what we want. So for this next
section, I'm just going to line these
up. Now, we need to split by the call to
action. We can split it all the way over
here. We want to set dimensions as 300
cuz our email is 600 in width. We want
this to be exactly halfway. Make sure
that's lined up. And then boom, export
this slice. Copy and paste. Go over to
the other side. This is going to be the
next slice. And then repeat this for
these bottom sections. And then once we
have our image slice. I'm just going to
do just half of this cuz I think you
guys will get the point. Before we
upload to Clavio, we want to compress
these image files because right now
they're really big and really complex
files. And so I like to go to i love
img.com. You go to this compress image
section. We're going to take all of our
slices wherever they are, upload them
in, compress it, and you'll see that it
made our files 72% smaller. And the
differences in the image quality is
really minimal. We can click on this.
You can see it's still very high
quality. So, let's go back into Clavio.
Let's create a campaign. We'll say test
Calvin Klein. Send an email. Click
continue. Whatever audience we want. Say
I did just newsletter. Turn you off. Put
our subject line. Hi, there. And then
we're just going to create our email
right here. And all we're going to be
doing is uploading our email as image
blocks. So, I'm just going to delete
these sections right here. Just going to
drag in these images right here. Upload
our compressed files. Here's slice one.
Upload this. Clavio has a compressed
option. They'll do the compressing for
you. However, I found that it's not too
good quite yet. I still prefer to use I
love IMG. So, actually right here we
have the buttons that we need to split
by. And so, what we can do is we can
insert a table right here and then
switch this to an image cell content.
You can see there's kind of like gaps
around here. So, if we go to styles, we
can Okay, my camera just died. I'm
literally on my phone right now. But let
me finish showing this to you because we
have our table right here. We want to
enter zero for the padding so that we
just have our images. And we can edit
this in just like this. And then you can
see those images go full bleed now. And
then we can put in our different buttons
over here. Upload these. Do the same
thing for this side. And we can actually
delete this because we have another
table that we're going to introduce
right here. And then just like that, we
have two tables right here. We have
this. And then we could have the other
slices to our emails down here at the
bottom. And all that we have to do is
add in our links right here on top of
all of our images wherever they're
going. So this I would just put the link
of the Calvin Klein product section. So
if we go to men's, then we could just
click this link and then upload it for
the men's for this sort of link right
here. And then you just put the links
throughout and then you are good to go.
And that's literally it. Just uploading
as images inside of Clavia. This is
going to be the most tactical video on
how to make email designs that actually
convert. And it's not just going to be
like, "Oh, you should do this." I'm
literally showing you exactly what bad
is and then me recreating the email and
what good is. This is exactly what we do
at my agency. We've done over $100
million in the past 18 months. We sent
over a billion marketing emails and we
kind of know what works. So, I'm going
to go over through all these examples
that I personally have done with my
team. So, let's go over these examples.
We're using big brands here so that it's
easy for you to understand and easy for
you to see uh kind of like the before
and after and what it looks like because
believe it or not, a lot of these big
brands don't know what they're doing
with high converting email design. So,
I'm going to show you exactly what you
should be doing. So, first up, we have
this Calvin Klein email. So, this is
actually what Calvin Klein's email looks
like when you sign up to their email
list. Now, there are a couple things
that stand out. The first thing that we
want to consider is the customer as
they're coming in. The hero image is
just a big shirtless dude, which I mean,
yeah, that's cool and all, but really,
we have men and women who are coming
into this brand. And so, it's really
important with your product imagery what
you're using. So, you can see in this
imagery, we went with a actual just like
featuring men and women using the
product. And so the person could see
potentially this is somebody who uh who
matches them and what products they
would buy. So that's going to be super
important right off the bat that we want
to do. This also matches their website
aesthetic. Nowhere on their website do
they have all these colors. And so you
sign up to the email list, you get all
these colors. Just doesn't match the
brand. And so we want to make sure that
we're matching the brand here. The next
thing that's going to stand out is right
here. We have the welcome and then the
button with the discount way up at the
top of the email. When somebody's
opening up their email, they are seeing
they're only seeing like up until like
this point. So, you're just seeing this
dude and his jock right when you open up
the email. That's not what the person
signed up for. They're here to get their
discount code and they're here to leave.
They we need to make it as clear as
possible. Hey, welcome to Calvin Klein.
Here's your discount. Go shop on the
website. That's what we want you to do.
So, that's what we want to do right
here. And then we just give a little bit
of brand information, remind the
discount code throughout the whole
email, and then shop by collection for
ease of shopping. Shop men and women
might just might not be enough. And so,
we want to give out a couple of
different recommendations here. and then
always have a footer with buttons right
here. You'll notice that we have clear
shop now buttons for all of these
sections and it just flows really well.
We have nice, clear, and big buttons
right here throughout the whole email.
Now, the biggest difference here is
updating the product imagery in this
hero section to make sure it's calling
out the actual uh customer cuz we've had
different hero sections result in double
the revenue for brands just by the
images that we're picking. So, we want
to make sure that we're taking that into
account. Always have the button and the
discount code up at the top of the email
for the welcome email and make sure it
matches your brand vibe. Super important
for welcome emails. Now, let's go into
Whoop right here. Tech brand. If you
haven't seen them, wearable fitness
tracker. Um, but essentially this is
their before email. What's something
that you'll notice? Well, first it looks
kind of lame. It's just like kind of
just like text and then some images here
and there. There's a lot of text right
here. It's a little bit small. The first
button is down here and it just says
learn more. How lame is that? So, we
wanted to reconstruct this whole thing
and like what this email is about
because they offer a free trial. You can
literally get a Whoop sent to your house
for free and try it out and then you
don't pay until after like the first
month. I believe it's the first month.
And so, we want to make our call to
action show how much value this is. So,
we changed this email to talk about the
free trial because that is our offer.
That is what you get when you buy our
product. So, we want to feature that.
Um, and then we just made it more fun
with the copy. That's not on the copy.
That's not on the design side. This is
copy. So doing something instead of
being like we're not like other
wearables. We made this when like the
Kendrick song they not like us was big.
So played on that. They not like us,
their fitness tracker, we're performance
partner, yada yada. Use your free uh get
your free trial with Whoop today. Start
free trial. Boom. Then we actually show
what the product is like, what the app
is like because that's what people care
about. And then we pretty much just
showed what they were showing in a
different layout. It just it just flows
a little bit smoother. We have the
background change right here in this
infographic. I found that it's harder to
read when your eyes are going back and
forth. we prefer to stack. Then we end
with the free trial right here. And then
of course in the footer, we shop by
category, accessories, and memberships.
We want to give people options to browse
further if they didn't find what they
liked in this original email. And so we
moved this button way up at the top. We
adjusted some of the copy. You can see
this hierarchy right here. It's super
simple to see. Right when the person
opens the email, they have something to
click and there's a clear value
proposition. Then we just cleaned this
out. made a little bit immersive so it's
not as flat like right here by having
this section go over having the phone go
right here and this just makes it super
clean um and a lot more immersive for
the customer. So that is Whoop. Now
let's go to this next one. So this is
Aloe Aloe. It's pretty much like a
Lululemon fitness clothing. So this was
a site abandoned email. So this was if
you go to the website, you don't view
any products and then you leave. Okay.
Or it's a collection. I mean it's a
collection. So you're this is this is
what happens when somebody is looking at
tops. And so, um, this is the email that
you receive. You'll see there's a weird
thing going on here with light versus
dark mode in the email. Um, which
happens when you use Clavio or whatever
email sending provider sections. We
don't like to do that because in light
versus dark mode, it's going to give you
a ton of different stuff because for
different users in their uh, inbox, they
prefer
dark mode. With Clavio or Intex HTML
sections, it's going to alternate the
colors. It's going to mess up your
email. And actually, a lot of people
think that you can't do full image
emails, but you can. We do over $10
million every single month with pure
image-based emails. I don't know who
started spreading this propaganda that
you c you can't do image based emails.
You quite literally can. And look at all
the top brands and a lot of the top
brands crushing from email. They're
doing this. Trust me, I've tested this.
You're totally fine doing full image
based emails. But you'll see right here,
trending tops. A couple things that
stand out. There is no button in this
whole email. You have shop women and
shop men up here at the top, but we
never want those to be at the top
because that distracts the customer
right at the beginning of the email
because that's not what the email is
about. There's no clear buttons for each
of these individual products. We need to
have individual shop now buttons so the
customer knows that they can click that
item. You'd be surprised that has an
impact on clicks. You want to make sure
you do that. And then you want to give
people a general option like shop all
tops. What happens if the person viewing
this email doesn't like any of these
tops? They're just going to leave. But
what if you finish with like a general
like keep browsing or something like
this? like shop all tops. We always want
to finish our product sections with
further browsing if you have more
products. So what we did here, we made
this just a little bit more designed.
Made this during the winter time and so
we used like this winter background and
we said serve in your new top. These
deserve a second look. Grab your new
piece. You deserve it. Big button right
up at the top of the email. That's going
to be a theme because that is what high
converting design is. That's a fancy way
of saying put big buttons throughout
your email and put one up at the top in
the hero section so the customer sees it
right at the top. That is what high
converting email design is. Um, and so
what you can see here throughout this
email is look at how this flows. See, we
used a transition, a little gradient
down here, transitioning from the white
snow into the white background behind
this product section. It makes the email
very immersive. It makes it easier to
scroll. So that's what we're doing here.
Then we feature some trending tops. We
make it a little bit cooler than just
like plain products. And so we have like
the these little outlines and the black
and white shop now. We changed the
product grid to doing like one layout,
two layout. This is what you need to
keep your customers scrolling. and keep
them engaged with your emails because if
they see this, this is boring. This is a
little bit more. It releases a little
bit of dopamine in your head. Then of
course, finish with shop all tops. Then
of course, finish with shop by category
buttons in the footer in case somebody
might not be interested in a top, but
they might cuz like they they go to they
scroll to the bottom, they don't like
these tops and they're like, uh, I just
bought a top from Lululemon. Shop by
category woman. Eh, maybe I could go for
some for some aloe. Click on woman and
then boom, they can start shopping. That
is what we want here. This is an
abandonment email. address the
abandonment in the call to action right
here. Perfect. That is Aloe. Now, let's
go to right here. Birkenstock, Boomer
brand. It Birkenstock is just stuck in
marketing to 50 year olds. Meanwhile, a
lot of their sales right now are coming
from the younger audience. So, we want
to appeal with that design style. This
just looks There are a couple things
wrong here. You never want these
navigation buttons up at the top of the
email. Like I said earlier, when you
open your email and you look on your
phone, this is all you see and it's just
distracting. There's so much going on.
All these call to actions, decision
fatigue in humans. You're much more
likely to bounce. That's why we always
put the navigation buttons at the footer
when the person could potentially be
ready to browse. So, we put these in the
footer down at the bottom after somebody
has viewed these products and then they
don't like what they see. Keep it super
simple right when they open the email.
So, this was an upgrade letter leather
weather. Um, then right here, this
button's super small. Want to make our
buttons a lot bigger. Um, you can see
just the big difference here. The bigger
the button, the higher the clicks.
That's another principle of high
converting design. Um, and so we have a
big button right here. I like how they
have individual shop now buttons, but
they're very, very small. We want to
make that a lot make them a lot bigger
and clear. Make sure that they can see
this. It looks like this got messed
over, messed up when I brought this. At
the very least, we need to underline the
product section, which is what we did
here. I want to show a variation of us
not having the uh not having clear shop
now buttons, but you can actually
underline these products, too, and it
doesn't have an impact on click rates.
So you can see it's just a super super
simple product grid. Not very immersive
of an email, super flat and just not
very fun. And so what we did leather
weather, this was a fall email. And so
we made it fall vibes brown right here.
And then we feature the product. You can
see the immersiveness right here. This
is what she's wearing. Um big button up
at the top. Make it immersive over this
section to help it flow into this uh
white background down here. Feature the
different colors here, which we like to
do for our uh for our um brands that
sell clothing. always finish with a shop
all button. Then they also have a follow
section. So, we wanted to add that.
Then, we want to avoid all of these
different uh call to actions down at the
bottom. It's going to overwhelm. Let's
keep it simple. Products and then tag us
on Instagram. We have a photo gallery
right here. Um and um just to show that.
And then also we have the afterpay, shop
now, pay later in case price is
something that people are worried about.
And then shop by category of course in
the footer in case somebody uh might
want to shop something else. Um, so
there's the before and after for
Birkenstock. Now, let's rock and roll
over to a fun one. We have Rare Beauty.
So, this is one. This is Selena Gomez's
brand. And again, this is another
instance of you'd be surprised
how much you see these big brands mess
up. I received this email in April.
There's a block right here for the Cyber
Week event. What is going on here? How
do you not catch this? I'm I'm I'm
always so shocked with these big brands
that just have these mistakes. Um, but
same sort of deal with our prior welcome
email that we're showing that that we
went over. Um, we want to give the offer
super clear right in the person's face.
You have 10% off your first order of $30
plus. Here's your discount code. Go
shop. The person might not want to read
all this BS. Look at how small this
discount code is. If I am receiving this
email, I'm you people aren't reading
your emails. They're not going, I
created Rare Beauty because I wanted a
challenge. No, they're skimming the
email. And if you don't hand them a
click and you don't hand them the
information and the discounts on a
silver platter, they are not going to
click and they're not going to engage.
This is me handing the click in the sale
on a silver platter. The person signed
up for their discount code. Enjoy 10%
off. Here's your discount code. Go shop.
Right when you open the email rather
than going through this and then like,
oh, where's my discount code? Uh, Cyber
Week. What's going on for Cyber Week? D.
And then you're worried about this bunch
of stuff and then the discount code is
right here. Crazy. I don't understand
why we're doing this. the individual
products, they need to have shop now
buttons just like this. This is what we
want to do. And then clean up the footer
a little bit. Add the shop by category
buttons. Make this a little bit cleaner.
And finish with a general shop now
button. Maybe the person doesn't want
these three items. Put the give the
option to shop other items right here.
And then of course we have just like
different imagery right here. Make it
flow a little bit. Have it uh give it a
little bit of life right here. Uh was
kind of the goal here. But this is what
is going to be high converting. Give
them the click on a silver platter.
Liquid Death. I wish Liquid Death had
better emails because they're such a fun
brand and I love them. So, this is the
before. Uh, Eternal Blackness never felt
so soft. I love the copy. Their copy is
amazing. More stuff you don't need.
That's really funny. Um, click the
button says hell yes. I think that's
great. It's just their design. The
button is way too low. It's too small of
a button. We need to make it a little
bit bigger. We need to have it higher up
in the email. Um, and let's let's add a
little bit more fun into these emails
because they've so much life with their
copy and brand. Let's add that to
design. Let's make it high converting
because it may not convert. Having a
bunch of like fun elements in your email
designs may not convert as much right
off the bat, but over time you'll get
less unsubscribes, more people on your
list because they like opening the
emails and seeing the graphic design.
That's stuff that people like and that
gives dopamine in their heads to where
they will keep uh keep opening your
emails and eventually convert down the
line. And so what did we do here? We
changed the headline dress to kill. We
added this little like cool little
element right here. And then to go with
the kill, we had we added blood. And
then we uh added that line, eternal
blackness never felt so so soft. Added a
bit of copy. It's for those who refuse
to blend in, who embrace the dark side
and know that wearing black is always in
season. Banger. Shop black pieces right
here. So just making it super clear.
Shop black pieces. You don't just need
to shop this item right here. Shop black
pieces. Um, and then we feature the
product right here and then go into a
little bit of product education as far
as what this specific product is and
then own the darkness right here. Making
it a little bit fun, earth friendly
production, supreme comfort, let people
uh get behind the brand. 100%
sustainable cotton right here. Um, if I
could, if I would improve this a little
bit, I would probably try to make this
section flow a little bit better. I
don't like how abrupt it is right here.
Um, see, tried to do a little gradient
down here, but kind of was working fast
here. Uh, but that would be one thing
where I'd try to make this section flow
a little bit smoother. But I love this
product section right here. More stuff
you don't need. And then just adding
some life. Look at the little like paper
clip. There's a paper tear down here,
which is super cool. Gives it a bit of
life. Um, and then um, so this is a
specific product. And then a
testimonial. Um, love it. And it's a
funny testimonial. It's softer than the
inside of our king-sized coffin and it's
killer. Uh, looks scared our neighbors
into scraping the fish off their car
bumper. I'm rating it a perfect five out
of seven. Add some life with funny
testimonials. That's what builds
community because they're like, "Ah,
look at the look at the community. Look
at the buyers they have." And then also
featuring some other products. Shop now.
And of course, shop by category. In case
they don't want to buy a black tea, they
have an option to buy other stuff here
at the bottom. Boom. Perfect.
Engagement. Now, we have a super
straightforward one for UGG. Um, there's
just way too much going on right when
you open this email. customers are
going, I bet that their customer scroll
rate is so low because there are just so
many options. There are one, two, three,
four, five, there's six buttons right
when you open the email in the first
like half second. That's just crazy. We
don't want that. Um, and then it's just
like a little bit too abrupt here. These
individual products don't have shop now
buttons, which we need to have. And this
button's too small. So, what do we do?
We make it a little bit more immersive
by just changing the background of the
email to the background color of like
this main hero image. And so we just do
this, the perfect gift for every
Valentine. You know, you've been nice
all year, so treat yourself to a naughty
new look. Boom. Shop Valentine's Day.
Added some extra copy with this bridge
section. Um, and then add in the product
section, added the little hearts to go
with the Valentine's theme. And then
shop Valentine's Day. Shop by category
buttons in the footer. Super simple. You
can see a common theme here with all
these emails. Um, and then kind of for
road right here. Same sort of deal. I
love the copy and the stuff that they're
doing in their emails. Um, it just kind
of needs to be updated a little bit. Um,
I like this lip care, the road
dictionary. I think that that's great.
Um, I just think that this is a last
chance uh email. Um, this is a last
chance. And so what we wanted to do is
make it super clear that this is a last
chance. And so we'd have a discount
timer right here counting down the timer
of the offer because the offer last
chance is right here, which is literally
like tomorrow. Like if we're
highlighting an offer, people buy from
urgency. Let's put the urgency right in
their face. button way up at the top of
the email. Boom. Kiss the sun back.
Different copy right here. And then we
go into kind of like their lip care
matters. And then we move the road the
road dictionary section right down here.
And then we go through the treatment
steps of using the peptide lip treatment
and then the lip shape to make it flow
and give them a clear step process right
here. This is what you need to do. It's
the same sort of information but in a
little bit different way. And then
finish with the peptide lip treatment
free with purchase. Boom. Perfect. High
converting. this is what we want. And
then the last one here for the before
and afters, we have Gym Shark, who Gym
Shark, again, another brand that I
absolutely love, but their emails are
just lame. They're just stuck in the
corporate corporate vibe. So, again,
they have the navigation buttons at the
top, which are going to overwhelm the
customer. We don't want to do that. This
button is a little bit too small
overall. This is okay, though. Um, but
then it's just like super bland. The
individual products don't have shop now
buttons. We definitely want to do that.
And so these are like a few examples of
a little bit more engaging emails in
design. Um this is like an example of
like a branded email in a world where
you can do anything. Do gym. Um they say
that a lot in their um in their um
Instagram. Um so I pulled it from that.
And then a little bit of copy right
here. Big button right up at the top.
Immersive little section of do gym right
here playing throughout in behind this
girl. And then if you're going to do
gym, do it right. Mix and match our
favorites. Um, and so if we go right
here, um, this is actually a GIF, which
looks like it's not going to play, but
it's actually a GIF that plays different
tops and then different bottoms, so you
can mix and match your favorites. And so
that was like the angle we went with
there. And then new drops just in and
then shop new drops uh just to feature
that at the bottom. Um, and then a
testimonial sort of email with like a
phone right here. So it's a little
immersive. And then you have the logo
and it's kind of like a retro background
for gym lover for by gym lovers for gym
lovers. Shop now button. There's a low
shop now button, but that's okay. And
just a super simple email highlighting
some testimonials and then doing a um
doing a photo gallery before a final
shop now button and then woman versus
man. And then there's like a blog email.
So this is how we execute blog emails.
We like to have a button up at the top
and then a little sneak peek of what the
blog is like and then give a little bit
of information. So, back anatomy 101,
back anatomy 101, highlighting, giving
some education to the customer list,
which is great. And then finish with a
general learn more button right here.
So, you can see these have a little bit
more life. Um, and these are probably
going to convert a lot better. Um, and
yeah, these ones I think we could update
and do a little bit better. These are a
little bit old. I think these uh I think
some of these we could we could clean up
a bit more, but you can see like the
principles that we're applying. Okay,
now we have six final examples of just
like other brand emails that we've done.
Um, just to give some life to them. Uh,
so this is Ray-B bands for example. This
is a summer fever email. Again, you
could see right here, clear offer right
up at the top of the email and button
right up at the top of the email. You
can see this gift. We flip through the
products of different colors. And then
we go into some education. Sun's out,
shades out, your shades your style. And
so this is how you can customize your
products and you get 20 20% off custom
sunglasses. Because it's a custom shades
offer, we want to show every part that
they can customize. The lens, the frame,
uh the engraving in the case, and then a
general shop now, and then 20% off last
chance. And then, of course, footer
category buttons at the bottom. Same
sort of thing here. Skims wave at the
top, early gift for you, and then I love
how this email flows because it's a gray
background photo shoot, and she's on
like a white uh the floor is white, and
so you make the rest of the email white
so it looks like it flows and it's super
clean. Gifting made easy. Um, you're
coming with the gifting with our limited
edition gift bags. Just featuring that.
And then for her, for him, this is what
I love for clothing brands. If you're
doing a gifting email, for her and then
for him, and then separate by men and
women. And then right here, um, finish
with a general general button right here
for the sale. And then category buttons
in the footer. We have the super fun
email for Mr. Beast. Uh, feastables
right here, carrying a lot of the fun
from the website. And then peanut butter
perfected little bit of information. But
bun wave at the top of the email. You
can see how immersive this is right
here. It's going to hit well with the
demographic. Um, and so I love this. And
also in their emails, they never talk
about like their ethical sourcing, which
is what differentiates them as a brand.
Taking down big chocolate with ethical
sourcing. This is exactly what that
means. And I love how this footer is
like kind of like floating in the sky
right here. And we have these little
elements all throughout the email which
give it a ton of life and help it flow
um and feel super immersive. We have
this Calvin Klein email using a cool
little photo gallery at the top. And
then there's an example of doing shop by
men's and women's in the hero section.
So this is something that's fun. You
don't have to use the same sort of
layout of logo, headline, body copy,
button up at the top of the email. You
don't always need to do that. You can
have logo on the left with a photo
gallery with like uh the headline and
then body copy down here and then two
different buttons, which I think is
great. Um pair with denim, so women's
denim and then men's denim um right
here. Individual products with a cooler
uh product section right here. And then
bonus savings in store um as well. Just
highlighting that call out and then the
buttons in the footer. Perfect. Here's a
Stanley email. Valentine's Day sale.
Super clear. Valent super clear email on
Valentine's. Um just button up at the
top. Here's the discount. You still have
time. Anytime you're highlighting a
anytime your sale is ending, you want to
call out the day, especially if it's
coming up. So, I like the circling it
right here uh that we did on the design
side, making it a little bit fun that
this is when it's end. And then I like
it. make your list, check it twice,
order it now. I thought that this was
fun. And then a product section with the
check marks. Not as high converting
because there aren't individual shop now
buttons for this section, but I just
think it's super fun and you can mix
this up every now and again. Then again,
footer buttons in the footer. And then
lastly, New Balance right here. I think
that this is cool if you want to push
people to SMS uh men's upcoming
launches. Custom font right here, bring
it some life. And then the different
products uh releasing, sign up for SMS
reminders. Then also featuring past
launches that you do. A lot of brands
just do a launch email for products that
they're launching and then they don't
remind their customers. And so I think
that this is cool. Instock launches and
so you can look at the different
launches that they that they had over
the past like month or so. Some of the
featured products that are in stock
finish with a shop all styles button and
then have the footer navigation. So
boom, that is what I'm talking about.
That is high converting email design. So
in summary, get your buttons in your
offers way up at the top of the email.
Use big buttons.
End with a general shop now button.
Individual products need to have shop
now buttons.
Add footer buttons. And then boom,
that's it. And then make your emails
immersive when you can. Have some fun
with it. And boom. That's high
converting email design. That is what
you need to know. Hopefully that helped
you visualize it um and exactly what I'm
talking about in these videos and what
actually matters for getting people to
convert. So I have this Clavio account
right here and we're going to be going
through in depth exactly what we changed
and what we're doing. But just to show
in terms of like the results of when we
started working with this brand which
was in October. We can see the total
store revenue right here. See total
store revenue is up 70% in this past 12
months and email marketing revenue up
226%. And this blue bar right here is
the email marketing revenue. You can see
what it was like before us. Then after
us jumping from like $100,000 a monthish
to around the $200,000 per month mark.
And this doesn't even show SMS. Here we
can see what the SMS results look like.
And this is in the platform attentive.
You can see the difference in revenue
over time at around that mark when we
started working with them in October,
September. So, let's get into the actual
strategies and the accounts. So, this is
the past 30 days. Email marketing
revenue $212,000 and then SMS $287,000
coming out to a total of $500,000. So,
this is me. I'm Max, the founder of
WellCopy. Email marketing agency. We've
generated over $100 million in
attributed revenue in the past 12
months. So, if you want to know more
about me, there are my different social
media profiles. So, the first thing we
want to focus on is actually not about
email and SMS. It's actually with your
sign up forms and your list growth. I
believe that the number one most
important part of your email marketing
and SMS marketing strategy is your list
growth because it's so easy but such
high leverage. Say you could double the
amount of people joining your email and
SMS lists. You will be able to double
your email and SMS revenue over the long
term. It's that simple. Yet so many
people just throw up a templated pop-up
form and hope that they're growing their
list. When in reality, every single day
you are letting people slip by and you
are losing revenue just by not making
these couple tweaks, which we did for
this brand. So, exactly why do we want
to focus on signup forms? It's because
people just aren't ready to buy when
they first visit your site in 2025. And
so, without a pop-up form, you're just
left with only a few bucks from the
people who are ready to buy on your
website right then and there. The other
people will leave and just never come
back. You're paying all this money on ad
traffic. They're going to your website.
Maybe you'll get a good rorowaz here,
but most people are just going to leave.
But a high converting pop-up will allow
us to capture the folks that we paid so
much money to acquire, even if they
aren't ready to buy right now. We're
able to then educate them through email
about why our brand is different. and
then convert them after we have their
trust and their objections have been
addressed. So rather than just letting
everybody leave here, we can at least
still get this return, but get more out
of our website traffic to then send them
emails and text messages and create a
much higher ROI. And so these were the
results that we did over these forms.
And I'm going to show you exactly the
form strategy and list growth strategy
that we used, but we've absolutely
transformed everything. Through
meticulous AB testing, we took their
form conversion rate from 4%, which
isn't bad. That's around industry
average to now we're converting 16.9% of
their website visitors into email
subscribers. That is a 4x in their email
list growth. Four times the amount of
people they're getting off of their ads
and four times the amount of people that
they can then educate over email to get
them to buy. So what we get is around
17,000 to 30,000 new email subscribers
per month and 8,000 to 12,000 new SMS
subscribers per month. and their
acquisition revenue from these systems
being around $200,000 to $300,000 per
month, which you can see here with these
analytics in the signup rate over just
the past 30 days. So, as far as the
strategy, what exactly are we doing in
2025? We can't just do a basic just
enter your email for 10% off sign up
form. The customer is bored of that and
they have ADHD. They need interaction
and they need ways to get them out of
their zombie-like scroll state. So, what
we do is we use a survey form using the
platform called Alia. If you say, "I
sent you," you can get 10% off. But
essentially, it's a pop-up form software
which allows you to create immersive and
high-converting signup forms just like
these. So, why would we do something
like this where we're asking a question
before we ask for somebody's email
address? It seems counterintuitive, like
adding an extra step for the customer.
You'd think you want to remove steps for
the customer to get them to enter their
email. But no, we have a couple
psychological reasons that this form
gets customers to convert at a higher
rate. First, low barrier to entry. It
looks like somebody just needs to answer
this question in order to get their
discount, and so they're much likely to
interact with this first step. In fact,
we're getting over 50% of people to
interact with this first step. And then
what we have is the customization bias.
Humans tend to convert better when they
feel that they are getting a
personalized product or service. So
right here, when we're asking somebody,
hey, what problem are you trying to
solve? Then they know that we're going
to know this information and be able to
get them custom products and actually
address their exact needs. This also is
commitment bias, which is how humans
tend to follow through on actions once
they start a process. So in this case,
somebody's answering this first
question. So, they're going to answer
what problem I'm trying to solve. Say
I'm trying to fix my scars. And then the
next step of this form is it's asking
for the email address. So, they are much
more likely to enter their email address
off of this because they already acted
on this first step. Somebody clicks this
first step and then it's asked for the
email address. And the person thinks,
uh, I've already started with the
process. I might as well just enter my
email. And then after that, we say,
enter your phone number to activate your
discount. And that plays into it even
more. It's also novelty bias. Humans are
much more likely to engage with things
that are new or they haven't experienced
before. Customer just hasn't seen these
types of forms right now. Now, give this
a year or so and people are going to be
worn out from this form and we're going
to have to try something new. But right
now, this just works exceptionally well.
And so for this brand, for example, our
welcome discount, we tested percent off
versus dollar off in versus a mystery
discount. This is a super high leverage
AB test is to test your different
offers. So you can see for this brand,
it's 15% off. What I would do is I'd
test 15% off versus something like $10
off. This brand right here, you could
say you've got 21% back. So, it's doing
cash back versus 21% off. You can see
the discount is really weird. It's 21%.
They probably tested 21% versus 20%. For
some reason, people just interact with
21% more. So, make sure you AB test your
offer. We started off with doing percent
off for our brand. We tested a mystery
discount. We tested dollar off and
dollar off was the winner. And that's
what we're currently running to have
16.9% conversions. But that is the list
growth, 4x, and the growth right here.
And that just made our lives so much
easier so that we can convert these
people with our actual emails, which is
what we're going to talk about first,
which are these automated flows. So,
let's talk about the email flows that we
set up. Email flows are the automated
emails that are going to fire for a
customer based on an action that they
take. So, when a customer does something
like joining your email list or
abandoning a cart, then we can fire
custom emails for the customer and give
them the information that they actually
need to buy. These are essential because
they allow us to ascend this custom
content based on where they're at in the
customer journey, which increases the
likelihood of conversion. Plus, who
doesn't like automated revenue? So,
these are the exact flows that we
currently have live in the account and
then the number of emails within each
flow. First off, we have the welcome
flow. And this is going to trigger when
somebody joins the email list. And the
purpose is to give the customer their
discount and educate them on the brand
to guide them into a purchase. Our
products are a little bit more expensive
than other competitors in the clothing
niche. So, we need to educate these
people and build trust. So, we send
eight emails, which is kind of a lot.
You don't need to send this many. The
sweet spot is usually four to five. But
for this brand, we just had so many
high-converting emails that we've used
that we're confident in that we want
every customer to receive when they join
the email list. So, we went with eight
emails. And then we have the site
abandoned flow, which is when someone is
active on the website, but they don't
actually view any products. This is a
flow that not a lot of brands have, but
the goal is to get the customer back on
the site to browse products. And we have
three emails right here in this flow,
pretty much saying like, "Hey, did you
not find what you were looking for?" for
and then give them some social proof
like, hey, we're really awesome and show
them our bests sellers to make their
browsing experience easier. Our next
abandonments is the browse abandonment
flow, which is when somebody views a
product, but they don't add it to cart
or make a purchase. And so, we want to
get the customer to convert on that
browsed item. So, we have five emails
here specifically being like, hey, you
left this item behind, you browsed this,
come back and finish your order. Our
next flow, which not a lot of brands
have, but we found this works really
well for this brand, and that is the
espresso shop flow. So, this is going to
trigger when somebody clicks on an
email, but they don't purchase. What we
do here is this is a high intent person.
So, we just want to have a couple emails
here as an extra nudge to try to get an
impulse purchase. And we even include a
discount here because this brand is
pretty big on discount. And then we have
the cart and checkout abandoned flows
here which have a difference. The cart
abandoned flow is when somebody adds to
cart but they don't purchase. The
checkout abandoned flow is when somebody
adds to cart and then they go to the
checkout page to enter their credit card
information and then they don't buy. So,
we have five emails here for the cart
abandoned and the checkout abandoned. We
have more. We have seven emails cuz this
person almost just bought from us. and
they were so close. So, we're not afraid
to send multiple reminders. Then we have
the post-purchase flow when somebody
places an order just to get upselles,
affirm their purchase, and build some
community. We have two emails set in
place here. And then similarly, we have
the win back flow, but this is going to
be when somebody bought 90 days ago, but
they haven't bought since to try to get
them to purchase again. We've got four
emails here. And then we have the sunset
flow, which is when somebody has been
inactive on the email list for 180 days.
How can we re-engage these inactive
profiles? And if they don't engage,
let's suppress the inactive people to
save money on our Clavio bill. And right
here, we have two emails. And here you
can see the performance right here on
the email side of things. You can see
our best performer is the welcome flow
right here. Obviously, it's pulling in
38 grand every monthish. And then the
rest is also coming from SMS, which I'll
be showing shortly. And then we have the
cart abandoned and the checkout
abandoned here. Very important that you
have two separate flows for cart and
checkout abandoned. Most brands that I
review, they only have the checkout
abandoned. But look at this cart
abandon. It's our second best performing
flow, which is bringing in 16 grand or
so a month. The checkout abandoned. Then
we have the browse abandoned. For
anybody who views the product, we can
see the results right here. Then that
post-purchase flow, try to get an
immediate upsell and then also push
people to our social media. You see this
espresso shot flow, which most brands
don't have. This is bringing in an extra
3.5 grand or so a month. And then
abandoned site right here. Somebody goes
to the website, but they don't view any
products. You can see the win back flow
right here, which we've actually just
pulled back on cuz we found it's not
really bringing in a lot of revenue
because we're sending email campaigns
three to four times per week and most
people are rebying off of those email
campaigns. If you're not sending email
campaigns, then this win back flow is
going to be super super important and it
would be generating thousands and
thousands of dollars for this brand if
we weren't sending email campaigns at
such a high frequency. Then we have the
sunset flow, which the purpose is not to
get revenue. The purpose is to get
people back on the email list or
suppress these unengaged profiles. So,
it's not really bringing any revenue in.
So, you can see the exact performance on
these. And you can see this is very
typical in terms of performance of each
flow. Usually, the order of conversions
is somewhere around this for brands. the
performance would be much higher,
probably double the performance for
every single one of these if we weren't
running SMS for this brand. If you have
SMS and email running at the same time,
SMS is typically, as long as you do it
right, going to bring in more revenue on
the flows side of things. So, if I had
to estimate, we'd probably be at double
the revenue for most of these if we
weren't running the SMS, but I'll be
taking you through the performance here
on that shortly. So, those are the email
flows, and these are the exact results.
It's around $100,000 a month
contributing to 16% of the total store
revenue from these email flows. This
video right here, this email flows
tutorial breaks down all of these flows
for you if you want to see them in depth
in each email actually broken down. So,
I highly recommend checking this out.
You want to get an idea. This is like
what a welcome flow may look like. You
can see the education on the brand and
pushing people to place their order with
the discount code. That's what a welcome
flow may look like. Meanwhile, abandoned
site. So somebody goes to the website
but they don't view any products. This
could be what something looks like lost
in choices. Let us point you in the
right direction and then promote some of
the best sellers. And then the next
abandonment we have the abandoned browse
flow. So if somebody views a product and
then leaves, we want to have the dynamic
Clavio section showing what that person
left behind. Mixing in some social
proof, some unique selling propositions,
and if you want to add a discount, you
can. And then abandoned cart and
abandoned checkout. For our brand, we
have different strategies for cart and
checkout, but if you're short on time,
you can make them the same. You can see
forgetting something the dynamic section
have some icons and a little bit of
social proof right here. You can see
again some more education here. Mixing
in some text based emails right here. Um
so it's a little bit personal, some more
social proof and testimonials and then a
discount as well if you want to include
that for post purchase right after
someone buys. We want to have an
immediate thank you and then like a PS
of just like hey place another order you
can do that here. Pushing people to
social media and then educating on the
product right here. And for win back,
somebody bought a while ago. We can say
something as straightforward as, hey,
it's been a while, yada yada yada, place
another order, take this discount,
whatever you want. And that's kind of
like what your system can look like. The
brand that we use is quite different and
the designs are really elevated because
our products are really expensive. So,
we want to make sure our designs reflect
that. So, ours look pretty different,
but the strategy is kind of like in a
nutshell very similar. So, that's on the
email flows side of things. Now, let's
talk about the SMS flows. SMS flows we
have to keep much similar and minimal
compared to email. But SMS flows are
just as important if not more. So we
need to keep things super super simple
to avoid annoying the customer. People
are going to unsubscribe from text
messages a lot sooner than they would
email. We have to be very very
intentional. And there are certain rules
that we need to follow like for
abandonment flows like cart and checkout
abandoned on SMS. It's actually illegal
to send more than one text message. So
we can only have one. So we can see we
have the same sort of flows here but we
have way less messages within them. So
we have our welcome flow. We're sending
three SMS messages being like, "Hey,
welcome. Here's your discount." And if
somebody doesn't use their discount,
then we're going to remind them twice
more just being like, "Hey, your
discount's expiring." The side abandoned
flow, just one SMS. And then browse
abandoned, cart abandoned, checkout
abandoned. These are all going to have
one SMS as well. We have two text
messages for the win back flow. We
actually have a back and stock flow
right here as well, specifically just
for SMS. Because for this brand, we're
only gathering their phone number when
somebody requests to be notified when an
item is back in stock. And then here are
the results. We can see the revenue for
each one. I'll break these down, but
we're currently doing around 150k a
month, contributing to 24% of the store
revenue. You can see we changed welcome
flows right here. So, both of the
welcome flows are right up here. You can
see they do just over $100,000 a month
just with that welcome flow. And that's
what having a really good pop-up form
can do to you cuz you have a lot of
people entering in here. You can see we
had two cart abandoned flows here which
are bringing in different amounts of
revenue cuz we changed this as well
through the month. And we have the
checkout abandoned right over here. Then
our two browse abandons which you can
see right here. You can see the
conversion rates and everything, the
average order value, the revenue per
message, but this again is pretty
typical. And these KPIs are pretty solid
and probably what you're going to go
for. You can see super high unsubscribe
rates on the welcome flow right here.
That's pretty typical because people
will sign up to the SMS list, get their
discount code, and then immediately
unsubscribe. So, it's not too out of the
ordinary. You see the different
conversion rates here, which is going to
be after somebody clicks. I know people
always worry about click rates, and so
these are pretty typical click rates
that we can shoot for. Those are the
exact numbers and how they're
performing. Those are the automated
messages. Now, let's actually talk about
the campaigns. So, the campaigns are the
one-time emails and SMS that you're
sending to the list. Such as if there's
like a Memorial Day sale, you're going
to send that to people at a specific day
and time. Whereas flows you set live and
then they're automatically going to be
sending as people complete that action.
So, let's talk about the email campaign
strategy right off the bat. What is the
strategy that we're doing for this
brand? So, what we're doing is we are
sending three to four email campaigns
per week. This is so we can stay top of
mind and maximize our inbox visibility.
Now, some people might be like, "Oh,
that's way too many emails." But look at
the top brands. Aloe, Dr. Squatch,
Ridge, Viori. They're sending emails on
average four to seven times per week.
And if these brands who are at the
forefront of all marketing trends in the
game right now are doing this, then they
probably know what they're doing. To be
safe, we like to send three to four
email campaigns per week. If you think
that's too much, just run it for a
month, review the results. I can almost
guarantee that the results are going to
be better. As far as the content, we're
leading with value, not offers. We want
to build trust and increase our
long-term conversion. We can't just spam
discounts. We're giving them value and
we're educating them. This is going to
decrease our unsubscribe rates. We're
focused on non-disounts. Educate,
entertain, and differentiate our brand.
Something that we're doing a lot is
textbased emails, which I will show you,
but essentially these have no images.
They just feel personal. It comes from a
team member, and they cut through all
the noise, and they just feel way more
personal. When we do use our graphics,
we're making our emails skimable,
punchy, and optimized for mobile first.
85% of people are opening their emails
on their phone. So, we need to make sure
that we're optimized for our phone and
people aren't sitting down and reading
their emails. They're just skimming them
super quick. So, we need to make them
skimable and punchy. We create email
campaigns around micro topics, not
generic themes. We need to go deep on
product features or specific customer
FAQs. Rather than having a general email
about we're the best. We want to focus
on one thing about why we're the best.
Something like how our materials are
sustainable and good for the
environment. That's a micro topic that's
super specific that makes it a lot more
digestible for the customer. If we
overwhelm them with 10 different
benefits of ours in one email, the
customer is going to get overwhelmed and
they're not going to remember any of our
benefits. Whereas, if we just focus on
one and really try to drill that home,
the customer is much more likely to
actually internalize that. That's what
we want to do. We also want to pull a
lot of social proof, reviews, and user
content, which is going to add our
credibility and then also our connection
to the customers. We design our emails
inside of Figma, which is a design tool.
And then we're uploading our images into
Clavio for clean and consistent layouts
and better deliverability. And then we
want to rotate between story, product,
and value angles to avoid list fatigue
and keep things as fresh as possible. So
you can see like bad content is 50% off,
limited time offer, discount exclusive,
buy our stuff. No, good content. We want
to do tips and tricks for whatever this
benefit is. A message from our founder.
Watch out for this in the industry.
Watch out for wearing these materials
with your clothes. These are our
favorite picks. What does this mean?
This is the sort of stuff which is going
to keep your email list engaged. And so
kind of like our main subtopics here is
graphic- based value emails. This is
what we're sending three times per week
and then we'll probably do like one
textbased email per week on top of that.
So, we want these graphic based emails
specifically for fashion brands because
customers need to see products in
action. They need to be able to see
other people wearing the products so
that you can judge yourself if you'd
look good in that product. So, having
sexy graphic design is extremely
important for fashion brands cuz people
are buying our vibes. We want to focus
on our strong branding, clear visuals,
and conversion optimized designs that
don't rely on discounts. So, we can see
a couple of examples here. You can see
kind of like the email which goes on top
of the vibe of like the checkered cases.
You can see the checkered throughout.
It's just nice and clean and fun. You
can see this is a great non-discount
educational email saying not all scrubs
are created equal. Polyester and cotton
are like bad exes. And so kind of just
showing how our products are different
from that and then linking to men's
versus women's. You can see this also is
not overwhelming the customer with a ton
of information. Short, quick, and
punchy. Somebody can look at this email
for 3 to 5 seconds and understand it.
Perfect. And then something like this,
like brand messages. Golf wasn't born to
be boring. Neither were you. You can see
a button way up at the top of this
email, which is easy for the customer to
click. And this is the most like amount
of copy that you would want to include
all at once in an email. Since this is a
brand message campaign, this is okay to
do every now and again. But most often,
we want to be using bullet points. We
want to be able to use icons like this.
But these are three great examples of
kind of like the stuff that we're
sending three times per week would be.
And then just as important, we have our
textbased emails because this is the
secret sauce. In 2025 and 2026, we need
to make sure we're mixing in personal
touches. People today want to buy from
people. They don't just want to buy from
faceless corporations. Following COVID,
the customer is craving human
interaction. We need to give them that.
Textbased emails are one way to do that.
They look exactly like they're coming
from a friend and they just pull the
customer closer to you. You can see
coming from a person right here. There's
no crazy graphics and the simplicity of
them just converts better in most cases.
Builds trust, builds community, the
simplicity just converts better. Now,
you might be wondering, why don't we
only send textbased emails? But we
really don't want to over send them.
Even though they do typically perform
better, we need to make sure we're
visually appealing our customers and
giving them variation in our emails for
them to stay subscribed. We have a
couple brands in the past where we were
like, textbased emails always perform
better. Let's only send textbased
emails. But we noticed that they lose
effectiveness over time as the customer
really gets used to them and there's no
visual appeal. Like I said, the customer
is kind of like brain dead. They're
addicted to dopamine and they just
scroll all day every day. They need
dopamine. They need to be visually
appealed. They need newness. If you
aren't giving them new, then what's the
reason for someone to open this email?
If they know exactly what it's going to
look like every single time, just plain
text, then there's no reason for them to
keep opening your emails. So, use them
sparingly, but still use them. You can
see this is like an FAQ email of what
does it taste like? You can see it's
short, punchy, personal. It's coming
from a friend. and it says, "Hey yo,
talk like a friend." Just right here.
And then sign it off from a person. You
can see the sender name is from a
person. That makes a huge difference.
Here's another example here. It's from a
person. You can see how simple this is.
These aren't essays of information. It's
still easy for the customer to skim. You
can see just how much the call to action
stand out cuz they're the only thing
that's underlined. And also in the color
blue. These are the sort of the emails
that we want. And we're sending these
usually once per week for our brands. So
these are the exact email campaign
results in monthly calendar example for
this brand of the exact topics. So, we
send typically 15 to 18 emails per month
uh to the normal engaged lists for this
brand. And these email campaigns are
generating an average of $100,000 a
month, contributing to 16% of the total
store revenue. So, let's take a look at
these past 30 days right here. See, we
send on the 23rd, 24th, 27th, 29th,
29th, 2nd, 5th, 6th, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15.
Generally, we have a day or two in
between emails, but every once in a
while, we send two back to back. You can
see the open rates are all 60 to 70%
because we're very tight with who we're
sending to and we're only sending to
people who are actually opening our
emails. We send to our whole list and
we're going to get a lot of people who
aren't opening our emails. And if you
have anything like 20 to 30% open rates,
Google and inbox providers will see that
and they'll be like, "Hey, only 20 to
30% of people who are receiving this
email are opening these emails. People
probably don't want to see this brand,
so we're going to send them to the spam
folder." Whereas, if we're sending
emails and we're getting 70% opens, we
tell Google and Yahoo that seven out of
10 people who receive this email are
opening it. They're going to be like,
"Okay, cool. Let's send this to the main
inbox." So, it's very important to have
that segmentation in place. And so, here
you see the click rates right here.
These are pretty standard. We're going
to be as low as like 4% but all the way
up to kind of like 3% even. This is
pretty standard. Now, some people will
say you need like 2 to 3% placed order
rates consistently, but that's just
unreasonable. If you're a brand who has
under 5,000 email subscribers, then yes,
but the bigger your brand gets, the
lower your click rates become. We have
brands with 2 to 3% click rates
consistently, but they're still
generating a ton of revenue from the
email list, which just proves that click
rates aren't something that you need to
fully stress over. But as far as the
topics and what we're doing, we could
see this is like a sustainability
highlight for Earth Day. So, we really
want to play into the seasons as much as
we can, and we try to put as much
urgency as possible while keeping things
natural. So using things like pre-orders
and then doing restocks like here, here,
and back in stock, what we do there is
we have created demand and urgency. If
something needs to get pre-ordered or
something is back in stock, that means
that it went out of stock, which means
that it was in high demand, which tells
people, "Oh my gosh, this is a big
product. I need to buy this." So what we
did was we hyped things with a pre-order
and then did a big back in stock and
restock. Here you can see the revenue
that these did multiple days in a row
and the performance on the pre-order
right here. Even if something doesn't
necessarily go out of stock, we can
still promote this and use that angle.
That's what marketing is. And then
everything else in terms of what we're
doing is we're filling in with
non-disount angles, which we found work
well for the brand. So things like,
what's your vibe? So this was like, are
you going for a night out? Here are what
the products are. Are you having a night
in? Here's what products you can use.
Going on a coffee date, here are some
different outfits that you can
represent. So we do that. We have staff
picks. So highlighting like some of our
staff's pick. And then lots of outfit
inspiration. So a seasonal outfit
inspiration and outfit inspiration here
and then featuring our community. So
follow our IG, we featured some of our
customers there and then also featured
our community with images that were sent
to the Instagram and saying like, "Hey,
here are other people in these items.
Buy these items." And that worked really
well. And then also typically we're
doing one promotion every single month.
So we did a free item with orders above
X amount of dollars. You can see the
performance on this and how well it did.
Anything over one to two kind of like
sales per month and you might be
overdoing it. This is just what we've
found work well with them. So that is
the exact strategy and the exact numbers
that we were achieving for them. Now
let's go to the SMS campaigns. And the
strategy for SMS is we only want to send
SMS for high leverage moments such as
sales, product drops, back in stock
alerts, and any urgent updates. We want
to avoid nurture content in our SMS like
doing community in our pieces, what's
our vibe. We don't want to do this for
SMS because um that's going to be stuff
that gets people to unsubscribe. People
don't want to be nurtured on SMS. Text
messages can be annoying. We just want
to send the big stuff. So, save the
storytelling and value ad content just
for email. We stick to three to six
texts per month to preserve our urgency
and avoid our list unsubscribes. As far
as the content that we're doing, this is
the content strategy. Our messages need
to all be under 250 characters, which is
not a lot. That's literally like one
maybe two sentences. This is going to
save costs by having this only be one
send segment. If we even went one
character over to 251 characters, the
price is going to be double. So, we
always keep it as short as possible,
just quick and to the point. We also
want to skip images and MMS. So, if you
ever see a brand send you a text message
that has an image, they paid three times
more money than they would have if it
was just plain text. Now, a lot of
brands don't know this and so they send
a lot of image-based text messages, but
it's almost never that including that
image will generate three times more
revenue. So, we always cut that and keep
it as simple as possible to save costs.
And then always, always, always include
a clear CTA. We want to say shop now or
claim offer then have a direct link in
our text message. That's the strategy.
And here is exactly what the month
looked like and the strategy that we
did. We're sending four to six SMS per
month for them and just sending to our
normal engaged lists. And these
campaigns, just these five right here,
contribute to 16% of store revenue in
$100,000 every single month. You can see
all of these were big announcements with
urgency. We did a collection highlight
saying, "Hey, this collection is going
fast." We did the restock right here.
So, two different restock SMS messages.
We have the offer SMS that we sent and
then the pre-order collection email
right here. You can see the collection
going fast was like the only one that
wasn't like a big announcement like hey
a restock. You can see the performance
was the worst on the month at 12 grand.
Meanwhile, the restocks like this and
the pre-order and then the discount rate
here all had at least 50% more revenue.
You can see the click rate as well being
much lower. So this is why we only want
to have SMS for our big events. So that
was the email and SMS campaign strategy.
Let's get into the overall results and
lessons. Here was the total store
revenue which I showed you over time.
You can see the jump in email revenue
right here. In email marketing past 30
days, $212,000 contributing to 33% of
the total store revenue. And then SMS
$287,000
contributing to another 35 to 40% of
total store revenue, resulting in on
average of 65% of this store's total
revenue coming from our emails and our
text messages with over $500,000 a month
coming in. What are our lessons? Number
one, you want to dial in your pop-up
forms to explode your list growth and
the amount of people that you can market
to. We need to be sending 12 to 18 email
campaigns per month, sending out that
volume and using non-disount angles,
using both graphic based emails, and
then also mixing in some text based
emails. We need to send three to six SMS
campaigns per month, solely focused on
big events and no nurture, setting up
our core flows with email, making sure
we have three to six emails per flow. We
can't just make them one email. And then
set up our core SMS flows with one to
three SMS in each flow. And then of
course, test, test, test test test. Our
results were never like this the whole
time. It's about optimizing and learning
over time. And so if you want us to do
this for you, your 79 figure e-commerce
brand, book a free discovery
consultation call and we'll see if we
can do this for you. The link is going
to be in the description. And that is it
for this one. I hope you got some value
seeing the actual insides and what the
stats are for a real brand we're
generating $500,000 a month for. I hope
you got some value. Make sure to check
out other videos on my channel like the
one linked here, cuz a lot of this
information I'm giving away shouldn't be
free. Thanks for watching. I'll see you
in the next